title	UN recognition of Palestinian statehood
question	
headline_1	Diplomacy: Does the bid continue or undermine peace negotiations?
pro_1_1	UN support would breath new light into the two-state solution	 UN support would breath new light into the two-state solution Jonathan Freedland. "Britain should say yes to Palestinian statehood – and so should Israel." guardian.co.uk. September 13th, 2011: "UN recognition of a Palestinian state in the territories occupied by Israel in 1967 will breathe fresh life into the ailing idea which, despite everything, remains the last best hope of Israeli-Palestinian peace – a two-state solution. By recognising a state of Palestine alongside Israel, the UN will entrench the notion that the only way to resolve this most stubborn of conflicts is for these two nations to divide the land between them into two states. In so doing it will halt the steady drift, born of despair more than enthusiasm, towards the so-called one-state solution – so-called because while it would bring one state, it offers no solution, just a single entity that would frustrate the yearning for self-determination of both sides." 
pro_1_2	UN recognition would force final negotiations of two-state solution.	UN recognition would force final negotiations of two-state solution. MJ Rosenberg. "Obama Should Support Palestinian Statehood at the United Nations." Huffington Post. July 22nd, 2011: "Recognition of the State of Palestine by the United Nations would be a first step on the road toward successful negotiations which must follow UN action. After all, no UN action can force Israel to end the occupation of the West Bank. The army and the settlers will still be there, UN or no UN. That is why the Palestinian leadership says that one of the first things the new State of Palestine would do will be to ask Israel to commence negotiations over borders, security arrangements, refugees, Holy Places, etc. The only difference UN recognition would make is that it would be near impossible for Netanyahu to say 'no' after the United Nations had, in effect, declared that it was occupying not some vague entity but another people's state."
pro_1_3	Push for UN recognition IS diplomacy, doesn't undermine it.	Push for UN recognition IS diplomacy, doesn't undermine it. MJ Rosenberg. "Obama Should Support Palestinian Statehood at the United Nations." Huffington Post. July 22nd, 2011: "The biggest contradiction of all is the assertion that the Palestinian attempt to resolve their conflict with Israel at the United Nations represents a threat to diplomacy -- rather than diplomacy itself. After all, what is the United Nations other than an arena for conflict resolution by means of diplomacy? Having abandoned the effort to end the occupation through violence, the Palestinians are turning to the UN. What could be wrong with that?"
pro_1_4	Palestinian push at UN exemplifies nonviolent diplomacy.	Palestinian push at UN exemplifies nonviolent diplomacy. MJ Rosenberg. "Obama Should Support Palestinian Statehood at the United Nations." Huffington Post. July 22nd, 2011: "Taking their case to the United Nations is a powerful statement by the Palestinian leadership that they have rejected terrorism once and for all and are determined to live in peace alongside Israel. It is also a sign that the 'hard men' of violence who once dominated Palestinian politics are relics of the past. The future belongs to people like Salam Fayyad who, in the words of renowned New Republic writer and life-long Zionist, Leon Wieseltier, is the man who 'all Israelis and Palestinians, who are not maniacs, have dreamed' of."
pro_1_5	Statehood would break from status quo and impasse.	Statehood would break from status quo and impasse. President Carter said, "the only alternative [to statehood] is a maintenance of the status quo." Securing statehood, on the other hand, could shake up the calculations by Israel in the negotiations, and help force a peaceful resolution to the crisis. “As an alternative to a deadlock and a stalemate now, we reluctantly support the Palestinian move for recognition,” Carter said at the Carter Center in Atlanta in early September 2011.[1]
pro_1_6	Lack of other plan justifies UN recog of Pal statehood.	Lack of other plan justifies UN recog of Pal statehood. President Carter says that he would not have been in favor of the U.N. recognition bid had the Obama administration, “put forward any sort of comprehensive peace proposal.”[2]
pro_1_7	UN initiative fosters helpful state-to-state negotiations.	UN initiative fosters helpful state-to-state negotiations. Turki Al-Faisal. "Veto a state, lose an ally." The New York Times. September 11th, 2011: "The Palestinian statehood initiative is a chance to replace Oslo with a new paradigm based on state-to-state negotiations — a win-win proposition that makes the conflict more manageable and lays the groundwork for a lasting solution."
pro_1_8	Over 120 countries have already recognized Palestine.	Over 120 countries have already recognized Palestine. Many of these states are in the developing world. This means that nearly two-thirds of the UN General Assembly already supports Palestinian statehood. A vote in the UN is a logical next step.[3]
pro_1_9	Israel's refusal to halt settlements has prevented negotiations.	Israel's refusal to halt settlements has prevented negotiations. Nabil Shaath, leader of the foreign affairs department of Fatah, the main party of the Palestinian Authority: “We want to generate pressure on Israel to make it feel isolated and help it understand that there can be no talks without a stop to settlements. Without that, our goal is membership in the United Nations General Assembly in September.”[4]
con_1_1	Palestinian UN statehood push undermines bilateral talks.	Palestinian UN statehood push undermines bilateral talks. John Barrasso. "Block Palestinians' end run at U.N." Politico. September 15th, 2011: "President Mahmoud Abbas plans to formally request full-member-state status in the United Nations. This move intentionally puts prospects for peace in jeopardy. I oppose the decision of the PA to circumvent the peace process and seek a change in status from the United Nations. Along with the PA’s other recent actions that undermine peace, this decision demonstrates why Congress must terminate funding to the PA. Should a status change be passed, Congress must evaluate and significantly cut funding to the U.N.The best path to a true and lasting peace is through direct negotiations between the two parties — not through manipulations at the U.N. The consequences to the peace process are grave. The ability to move forward with an agreement is greatly diminished by these tactics. Instead of embarking on a time-consuming campaign to gain support in the U.N., the Palestinian leadership should be working directly with Israel on creating a real and sustainable peace agreement. The U.N. must refrain from intervening on issues that are part of the direct negotiations by the parties. The decision about borders and statehood should be achieved through a final agreement between Israel and the Palestinians."
con_1_2	UN vote is just paper; it doesn't change anything on ground.	UN vote is just paper; it doesn't change anything on ground. US Ambassador to the UN said on NPR on September 22nd, 2011: "they want a state and they want a state that has defined borders, that has a capital, that has the viability to deliver goods and services and benefits to the people. That's what we want to see. But there's no way to accomplish that through a vote in the Security Council and in the General Assembly. A vote here is merely a statement on a piece of paper. It doesn't change anything on the ground for the Palestinian people the day after.[6]
con_1_3	Peace can only be achieved by Israel and Palestine, not UN	 Peace can only be achieved by Israel and Palestine, not UN President Obama said to the United Nations on September 21st, 2011: "Peace will not come through statements and resolutions at the UN - if it were that easy, it would have been accomplished by now. Ultimately, it is Israelis and Palestinians who must live side by side. Ultimately, it is Israelis and Palestinians – not us – who must reach agreement on the issues that divide them: on borders and security; on refugees and Jerusalem."[7]
con_1_4	History shows conflicts need resolving by parties involved.	History shows conflicts need resolving by parties involved. President Obama said to the United Nations on September 21st, 2011: "Ultimately, peace depends upon compromise among people who must live together long after our speeches are over, long after our votes have been tallied. That’s the lesson of Northern Ireland, where ancient antagonists bridged their differences. That’s the lesson of Sudan, where a negotiated settlement led to an independent state. And that is and will be the path to a Palestinian state -- negotiations between the parties."[8]
con_1_5	Palestinian move not just symbolism; it's counterproductive.	Palestinian move not just symbolism; it's counterproductive. US Ambassador to the UN Susan Rice said to NPR on September 22nd, 2011: "This is not just a neutral, symbolic action. In our view it is unwise and counterproductive."[9]
con_1_6	Failure of negotiations is largely the Palestinians' fault.	Failure of negotiations is largely the Palestinians' fault. The Palestinians have consistently refused to acknowledge Israel as a Jewish state. This obvious, basic step would meet one of the Israeli's main preconditions for negotiations and would likely restart talks immediately.  
con_1_7	Palestinian Authority move in UN undermines legitimate PLO.	Palestinian Authority move in UN undermines legitimate PLO. Ali Abunimah. How Palestinian Authority’s UN "statehood" bid endangers Palestinian rights." The Electronic Intifada. August 8th, 2011: "Protecting self-determination for all Palestinians. The Western-backed Palestinian Authority’s (PA) effort to seek UN recognition of 'statehood' unilaterally, without consulting the Palestinian people from which the PA has absolutely no mandate, has raised fears among Palestinians that the move could actually harm Palestinian rights. If the UN votes to admit the 'State of Palestine,' it is likely that the unelected representatives of the Palestinian Authority would be seated in the General Assembly instead of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), which currently holds the Palestine observer seat at the UN. This would be a severe blow to the potential for realizing Palestinian rights in the long run through international bodies: whereas the PLO ostensibly represents all Palestinians, the PA 'state' would only represent its 'citizens' – residents of the West Bank and Gaza Strip. [...] A 'State of Palestine' must not be allowed to replace or usurp the right to representation and self-determination of the whole Palestinian people through a reconstituted PLO."
headline_2	Security: Would a UN vote bolster Israeli security?
pro_2_1	Supporting Palestine at UN would bolster Israeli security	 Supporting Palestine at UN would bolster Israeli security Isaac Herzog. "Why Israel should vote for Palestinian independence." Foreign Affairs. September 16th, 2011: "rather than oppose the resolution, Israel should seize the initiative and use it to its advantage by agreeing to support the Palestinian bid for statehood at the UN. Voting for Palestinian statehood may finally open the door for Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations, strengthen the possibility of a two-state solution, and greatly improve Israel’s position in the region and in the international community."
pro_2_2	Denying Palestinian rights undermines Israeli claims/rights.	Denying Palestinian rights undermines Israeli claims/rights. Michael J. Weil. "Op-Ed: Israel should support the Palestinian statehood push." JTA. September 12th, 2011: "Our doomed attempt to prevent recognition of Palestinian statehood at the United Nations will only serve to bolster the cause of those who are trying to delegitimize Israel's national rights."
pro_2_3	Denying Palestinian statehood could lead to renewed violence.	Denying Palestinian statehood could lead to renewed violence. MJ Rosenberg. "Obama Should Support Palestinian Statehood at the United Nations." Huffington Post. July 22nd, 2011: "This is a moment of opportunity, perhaps the last. Friends of both Israelis and Palestinians should do everything they can to support action by the UN. to create a Palestinian state this fall. The alternative, the end to diplomacy and the rebirth of utter despair and hopelessness, will inevitably lead to disaster for Israel, for Palestine and for American interests too."
pro_2_4	Palestinian statehood via the UN would undermine Syria, Iran.	Palestinian statehood via the UN would undermine Syria, Iran. Turki Al-Faisal. "Veto a state, lose an ally." The New York Times. September 11th, 2011: "The only losers in this scenario would be Syria and Iran, pariah states that have worked tirelessly — through their support of Hamas and Hezbollah — to undermine the peace process. Saudi Arabia recently played a leading role in isolating Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s brutal government by demanding an end to the killing of protesters and recalling the Saudi ambassador from Damascus. The impending fall of Mr. Assad’s barbarous regime provides a rare strategic opportunity to weaken Iran. Without this vital ally, Tehran will find it more difficult to foment discord in the Arab world. Today, there is a chance for the United States and Saudi Arabia to contain Iran and prevent it from destabilizing the region. But this opportunity will be squandered if the Obama administration’s actions at the United Nations force a deepening split between our two countries."
con_2_1	Israel's security concerns are not recognized by many at UN	 Israel's security concerns are not recognized by many at UN Remarks by President Obama in Address to the United Nations General Assembly. The White House. September 21st, 2011: "Let us be honest with ourselves: Israel is surrounded by neighbors that have waged repeated wars against it. Israel’s citizens have been killed by rockets fired at their houses and suicide bombs on their buses. Israel’s children come of age knowing that throughout the region, other children are taught to hate them. Israel, a small country of less than eight million people, look out at a world where leaders of much larger nations threaten to wipe it off of the map. The Jewish people carry the burden of centuries of exile and persecution, and fresh memories of knowing that six million people were killed simply because of who they are. Those are facts. They cannot be denied. The Jewish people have forged a successful state in their historic homeland. Israel deserves recognition. It deserves normal relations with its neighbors. And friends of the Palestinians do them no favors by ignoring this truth, just as friends of Israel must recognize the need to pursue a two-state solution with a secure Israel next to an independent Palestine." [Extended quote in  argument page].
con_2_2	UN vote on Palestinian independence would flare tensions.	UN vote on Palestinian independence would flare tensions. "Palestinian Statehood." New York Times Editorial. September 11th, 2011: "A United Nations vote on Palestinian membership would be ruinous."
con_2_3	UN vote would not change reality on the ground.	UN vote would not change reality on the ground. US Ambassador to the UN said on NPR on September 22nd, 2011: "While we are very consistent in our principled stand that we want to see freedom, democracy, respect for human rights everywhere in the world, including throughout the Arab and Muslim world — that is the goal, of course, for the people of Palestine. But they want a state and they want a state that has defined borders, that has a capital, that has the viability to deliver goods and services and benefits to the people. That's what we want to see. But there's no way to accomplish that through a vote in the Security Council and in the General Assembly. A vote here is merely a statement on a piece of paper. It doesn't change anything on the ground for the Palestinian people the day after. If it accelerated the negotiations, we would say yes. The reality is quite the opposite. The process that must occur will be that much more complicated in the wake of this kind of one-sided action."[10]
con_2_4	UN recognition of Palestine would not deliver lasting peace.	UN recognition of Palestine would not deliver lasting peace. Remarks by President Obama in Address to the United Nations General Assembly. The White House. September 21st, 2011: "it is the Israelis and the Palestinians -- not us –- who must reach agreement on the issues that divide them: on borders and on security, on refugees and Jerusalem.... let us make peace, but a peace, most importantly, that will last."
headline_3	Morality: Is UN recognition morally justified?
pro_3_1	Palestinian self-determination, statehood is morally justified	 Palestinian self-determination, statehood is morally justified Carter supports the Palestinian push at the UN and says that their statehood is "a basic moral commitment" for the U.S. 
pro_3_2	Opposing statehood push denies basic Palestinian freedoms.	Opposing statehood push denies basic Palestinian freedoms. Ahmad Tibi. "Rejection of Palestinian statehood denies freedom." Politico. September 15th, 2011: "President Barack Obama is delaying another people’s freedom. He’s joined by a Congress following the lead of House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-Va.) and also many members of both parties that implicitly — and sometimes explicitly — back Israeli colonization of the West Bank and East Jerusalem."
pro_3_3	Jews went to UN for Israel, Palestinians can for Palestine	 Jews went to UN for Israel, Palestinians can for Palestine MJ Rosenberg. "Obama Should Support Palestinian Statehood at the United Nations." Huffington Post. July 22nd, 2011: "The Jews of Palestine (who would later become Israelis) knew that the United Nations was the only forum to achieve recognition of a state when they turned to it in 1947. As any Israeli will tell you, it was the United Nations General Assembly that granted Israel its birth certificate. ... The Israelis went to the United Nations for precisely the same reason the Palestinians will."
pro_3_4	Palestinian UN push is consistent with the Arab Spring.	Palestinian UN push is consistent with the Arab Spring. Mr. Abbas at the UN in late September of 2011: “The time has come also for the Palestinian spring, the time for independence.”[11]
pro_3_5	Palestinians are rightly pursuing nonviolent option at UN.	Palestinians are rightly pursuing nonviolent option at UN. Ahmad Tibi. "Rejection of Palestinian statehood denies freedom." Politico. September 15th, 2011: "After 20 years of failed negotiations caused largely by Israel’s insistence on retaining parts of the occupied West Bank and East Jerusalem, as well as refusing to allow Palestinians the right of return, the Palestinians of the occupied territories are taking their case to the United Nations. They are refusing to allow Washington to kick the can endlessly down the road. More than 130 nations are expected to side with the Palestinians. Only a small number are expected to stand in the way. Yet Washington is determined to place the blame for the coming confrontation on the Palestinians. This is unfair. It is unreasonable to expect Palestinians to give up this nonviolent option."
con_3_1	Euphoria of UN vote would wear off w/ Israel still in control.	Euphoria of UN vote would wear off w/ Israel still in control. "Palestinian Statehood." New York Times Editorial. September 11th, 2011: "Israel would still control Palestinian territory, leaving the Palestinians disaffected after the initial euphoria."
con_3_2	Arab Spring doesn't change fact that bilateral solution required.	Arab Spring doesn't change fact that bilateral solution required. Explanation of Vote by Ambassador Susan E. Rice, U.S. Permanent Representative to the United Nations, on Palestinian UN Vote. February 18th, 2011: "The great impetus for democracy and reform in the region makes it even more urgent to settle this bitter and tragic conflict in the context of a region moving towards greater peace and respect for human rights. But there simply are no shortcuts. We hope that those who share our hopes for peace between a secure and sovereign Israel and Palestine will join us in redoubling our common efforts to encourage and support the resumption of direct negotiations. 
con_3_3	Settlements issue does not justify unilateral UN push.	Settlements issue does not justify unilateral UN push. Explanation of Vote by Ambassador Susan E. Rice, U.S. Permanent Representative to the United Nations, on Palestinian UN Vote. February 18th, 2011: "While we agree with our fellow Council members—and indeed, with the wider world—about the folly and illegitimacy of continued Israeli settlement activity, we think it unwise for this Council to attempt to resolve the core issues that divide Israelis and Palestinians. We therefore regrettably have opposed this draft resolution."
headline_4	US veto: Should US allow UN recognition of Palestine, or veto it?
pro_4_1	Pres Carter succeeded in ME peace, supports Palestine in UN.	Pres Carter succeeded in ME peace, supports Palestine in UN. President Jimmy Carter, and the mediator of the Camp David Accords and peace deal between Israel and Egypt: "If I were president, I'd be very glad to see the Palestinians have a nation recognized by the United Nations. There's no downside to it."[12]
pro_4_2	US veto of Palestinian UN vote would undermine relationship with Arabs.	US veto of Palestinian UN vote would undermine relationship with Arabs. Turki Al-Faisal. "Veto a state, lose an ally." The New York Times. September 11th, 2011: "The United States must support the Palestinian bid for statehood at the United Nations this month or risk losing the little credibility it has in the Arab world. If it does not, American influence will decline further, Israeli security will be undermined and Iran will be empowered, increasing the chances of another war in the region."
pro_4_3	US veto would undermine strategic relationship with Saudi Arabia.	US veto would undermine strategic relationship with Saudi Arabia. Turki Al-Faisal. "Veto a state, lose an ally." The New York Times. September 11th, 2011: "Saudi Arabia would no longer be able to cooperate with America in the same way it historically has. With most of the Arab world in upheaval, the “special relationship” between Saudi Arabia and the United States would increasingly be seen as toxic by the vast majority of Arabs and Muslims, who demand justice for the Palestinian people. Saudi leaders would be forced by domestic and regional pressures to adopt a far more independent and assertive foreign policy. Like our recent military support for Bahrain’s monarchy, which America opposed, Saudi Arabia would pursue other policies at odds with those of the United States, including opposing the government of Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki in Iraq and refusing to open an embassy there despite American pressure to do so. The Saudi government might part ways with Washington in Afghanistan and Yemen as well."
con_4_1	US supports two-state solution, but not via UN	 US supports two-state solution, but not via UN Remarks by President Obama in Address to the United Nations General Assembly. The White House. September 21st, 2011: "One year ago, I stood at this podium and I called for an independent Palestine. I believed then, and I believe now, that the Palestinian people deserve a state of their own. But what I also said is that a genuine peace can only be realized between the Israelis and the Palestinians themselves. One year later, despite extensive efforts by America and others, the parties have not bridged their differences. [...] the question isn’t the goal that we seek -- the question is how do we reach that goal. And I am convinced that there is no short cut to the end of a conflict that has endured for decades. Peace is hard work. Peace will not come through statements and resolutions at the United Nations -- if it were that easy, it would have been accomplished by now. Ultimately, it is the Israelis and the Palestinians who must live side by side. Ultimately, it is the Israelis and the Palestinians -- not us –- who must reach agreement on the issues that divide them: on borders and on security, on refugees and Jerusalem."
con_4_2	America's commitment to Israeli security is unshakable.	America's commitment to Israeli security is unshakable. Remarks by President Obama in Address to the United Nations General Assembly. The White House. September 21st, 2011: "But understand this as well: America’s commitment to Israel’s security is unshakeable. Our friendship with Israel is deep and enduring. And so we believe that any lasting peace must acknowledge the very real security concerns that Israel faces every single day."
headline_5	UN membership: Is UN membership valuable to the Palestinians?
pro_5_1	Palestinian membership in UN offers voting/legislative powers	 Palestinian membership in UN offers voting/legislative powers Victor Kattan. "The case for UN recognition of Palestine." The Electronic Intifada. June 13th, 2011: "If, in addition, Palestine became a member of the UN, it would be able to draft, propose, and table its own resolutions at the UN and vote on them and others. Palestine could also conceivably even be elected as a non-permanent member of the Security Council one day."
pro_5_2	UN membership is sufficient justification; independence is extra.	UN membership is sufficient justification; independence is extra. Abbas: "We are going to the United Nations to attain full membership ... that we are not going to bring independence. Let's not exaggerate ... We will continue to negotiate. We want a seat at the United Nations, and we don't want anything more."[13]
