title	Keystone XL US-Canada oil pipeline
question	
headline_1	Environment: Is the Keystone XL pipeline tolerable for the environment?
pro_1_1	Keystone XL will not appreciably add to global emissions.	Keystone XL will not appreciably add to global emissions. A 2010 assessment of a US Energy Department study found that Keystone XL would "not appreciably increase" global life-cycle greenhouse gas emissions. These findings were reinforced by the final Environmental Impact Statement from the State Department in August of 2011. Overall, it will simply be a drop in the bucket relative to global supply.[2] 
pro_1_2	Climate targets could still be met with oil sands.	Climate targets could still be met with oil sands. Brad Carson, the director of the National Energy Policy Institute, said to Living on Earth in June of 2011: "I have no doubt that if you look at the amount of resources that are talked about with the tar sands, or around the world, if we were simply to burn all of these oil reserves, we could probably still meet some of the climate targets of two degrees or three degrees Celsius. You know, scientists say that we can release only another 500 billion tons of carbon, and if you look at natural gas or oil, we can probably burn through most of that and still meet those numbers. We can’t do that plus burn all the coal in the world, of course."[3]
pro_1_3	Keystone pipeline important as long as economy depends on oil.	Keystone pipeline important as long as economy depends on oil. Brad Carson, the director of the National Energy Policy Institute, said to Living on Earth in June of 2011: "The larger debate [...] is whether we need to wean ourselves off of oil in the near term, period. And that is a debate worth having. But so long as we’re an oil addicted economy, the tar sands I think can play an important role in the world oil market."[4]
con_1_1	Keystone XL will significantly increase greenhouse gas emissions	 Keystone XL will significantly increase greenhouse gas emissions 
con_1_2	Keystone taps Alberta tar sands, the world's dirtiest fuel.	Keystone taps Alberta tar sands, the world's dirtiest fuel. "Keystone XL Pipeline." Friends of the Earth: "Pollution from tar sands oil greatly eclipses that of conventional oil. During tar sands oil production alone, levels of carbon dioxide emissions are three times higher than those of conventional oil, due to more energy-intensive extraction and refining processes. The Keystone XL pipeline would carry 900,000 barrels of dirty tar sands oil into the United States daily, doubling our country's reliance on it and resulting in climate-damaging emissions equal to adding more than six million new cars to U.S. roads."
con_1_3	Keystone XL will emit more than other oil production	 Keystone XL will emit more than other oil production 
con_1_4	Investing in tars sands delays transition to clean energy	 Investing in tars sands delays transition to clean energy 
con_1_5	Refining tar sands oil is more polluting to air quality	 Refining tar sands oil is more polluting to air quality 
con_1_6	Keystone XL taps water-wasting tar sands	 Keystone XL taps water-wasting tar sands 
headline_2	Safety: Is the Keystone XL pipeline safe for human communities?
pro_2_1	Pipelines are the safest mode of transportation.	Pipelines are the safest mode of transportation. Russell K. Girling. "The proposed Keystone XL pipeline will be built responsibly." TransCanada Corporation. July 13th, 2011: "Pipelines remain the safest method of transporting oil – safer than tankers, trucks or rail. Each day in the U.S., more than 200,000 miles of pipelines move oil and other energy products safely to where they are needed. That’s enough pipe to circle the earth eight times."
pro_2_2	Pipeline spills are uncommon.	Pipeline spills are uncommon. Russell K. Girling. "The proposed Keystone XL pipeline will be built responsibly." TransCanada Corporation. July 13th, 2011: "National pipeline statistics indicate that pipeline accidents are uncommon and that leaks tend to be small; most pipeline leaks involve three barrels or less, 80 percent of spills involve less than 50 barrels and less than 0.5 percent of spills total more than 10,000 barrels."
pro_2_3	Keystone XL would be one of the safest pipelines ever.	Keystone XL would be one of the safest pipelines ever. Russell K. Girling. "The proposed Keystone XL pipeline will be built responsibly." TransCanada Corporation. July 13th, 2011: "Using the most advanced technology, the pipeline will be monitored 24 hours a day through a centralized control centre. 16,000 sensors embedded in the pipeline provide data via satellite every five seconds. If the slightest drop in pipeline pressure is detected, remote valves are automatically closed, shutting off the flow of oil within minutes. Our pipeline would cross Montana’s Yellowstone River. As Governor Brian Schweitzer (D) pointed out, Keystone XL will use the most advanced construction techniques, including horizontal directional drilling that allows us to drill under the river a minimum of 25 feet. The pipe will be built with thicker steel, operate at a lower pressure and use advanced coatings to protect the surface from abrasion – all in an effort to further improve safety. To ensure the integrity of our pipelines longer term, they are cathodically protected, which means a low-voltage electric current runs through the pipeline, inhibiting external corrosion."
headline_3	Economics: Is the pipeline economically vital?
pro_3_1	US pipeline strategically taps huge Canadian oil reserves.	US pipeline strategically taps huge Canadian oil reserves. Brad Carson, the director of the National Energy Policy Institute, said to Living on Earth in June of 2011: "It is now estimated that Canada has the world’s second largest oil reserves, only after Saudi Arabia. So, from purely the perspective of the oil market, Canada’s role and the United States’ interests in those tar sands is a very important one - a very important public policy issue for this nation."[5]
pro_3_2	Keystone XL helps US avoid buying oil from volatile regions	 Keystone XL helps US avoid buying oil from volatile regions Brad Carson, the director of the National Energy Policy Institute, said to Living on Earth in June of 2011: "the dynamics of the oil market are important to remember here. Because right now, we are sending trillions of dollars a year to often hostile regimes, or regimes that are ambivalent toward the United States."[6]
pro_3_3	Keystone XL replaces lost supplies from Venezuela, Mexico.	Keystone XL replaces lost supplies from Venezuela, Mexico. The United States Energy Department study concluded that construction of the pipeline is necessary to replace the declining imports of heavy crude from Venezuela and Mexico.[7]
pro_3_4	Keystone XL could create 100,000 jobs.	Keystone XL could create 100,000 jobs. "Jobs in the Pipeline." Wall Street Journal Editorial. July 7th, 2001: "With 9.1% unemployment and gasoline prices in the stratosphere, President Obama must sometimes wish that some big corporation would suddenly show up and offer a shovel-ready, multibillion-dollar project to create 100,000 jobs and reduce U.S. reliance on oil from dictatorships. Oh, wait. His Secretary of State has had that offer sitting on her desk since she was sworn in."
pro_3_5	Keystone XL will carry stranded crude from ND, MT	 Keystone XL will carry stranded crude from ND, MT 
con_3_1	Oil pipelines are very expensive.	Oil pipelines are very expensive. Brad Carson, the director of the National Energy Policy Institute, said to Living on Earth in June of 2011: "it’s very, very expensive. The oil infrastructure in this country and around the world is billions, if not trillions, of dollars of investment."[8]
con_3_2	Keystone XL places profits before environment.	Keystone XL places profits before environment. Mitt Bittman. "Profits before environment." The New York Times. August 30th, 2011: "I wasn’t surprised when the administration of George W. Bush sacrificed the environment for corporate profits. But when the same thing happens under a Democratic administration, it’s depressing. With little or no public input, policies that benefit corporations regardless of the consequences continue to be enacted."
