title	Teacher-student friendships on Facebook
question	
headline_1	Education: Can teacher-student friendships improve learning?
pro_1_1	Teacher-student friendships can help extend classroom	 Teacher-student friendships can help extend classroom "Editorial - Facebook not appropriate for students, teachers, but alternatives possible." Star News Online. August 5th, 2011: "The policy could strip teachers of the ability to set up a social media site that works as an extension of the classroom. As technology becomes more important in professional and personal lives, our education system is often several steps behind."
pro_1_2	Exclusive teacher-student communications have edu value	 Exclusive teacher-student communications have edu value "Missouri 'Facebook Law' Limits Teacher-Student Interactions Online, Draws Criticism And Praise." Huffington Post. August 3rd, 2011: "critics argue that a student struggling with 'Hamlet,' for instance, misses a learning opportunity when he or she sees a teacher on IM and can't send a message. Or a student who is too shy to raise his hand in class might prefer to email his teacher, but might not feel comfortable knowing his parents or a member of the administration might be reading the email as well."
pro_1_3	Vast majority of teachers use friendships appropriately.	Vast majority of teachers use "friendships" appropriately. Doug Bonney, legal director for the ACLU of Kansas and Western Missouri: "We have tons of calls coming into our office on this issue. The vast majority of teachers are using social media very appropriately and effectively in our state."[2] 
pro_1_4	Teachers need to connect with students in their digital world.	Teachers need to connect with students in their digital world. Brent Ghan, spokesman of the Missouri School Boards Association, pointed out that high school students live in a virtual world these days and to cut direct and private contact in this arena is a bad idea. "That is how you communicate with them," Ghan said.[3]
pro_1_5	Facebook law widens gap b/w student lives inside/outside school	 "Facebook law" widens gap b/w student lives inside/outside school "Missouri 'Facebook Law' Limits Teacher-Student Interactions Online, Draws Criticism And Praise." Huffington Post. August 3rd, 2011: "'The number one technology that students use outside school is social networking sites,' said Christine Greenhow, an assistant professor at the College of Education and the College of Information Studies at the University of Maryland. 'This is the technology they're going to as their one-stop shop for communication. It's their email, their bulletin board, their online photo album, it's where they do their writing.' For that reason, Greenhow, whose area of expertise is learning in social media contexts, argued that limiting communication between teachers and students only furthers the gap between a student's in-school life and his or her life outside of school."
con_1_1	Online classrooms can be facilitated w/o friendships.	Online classrooms can be facilitated w/o "friendships." "Editorial - Facebook not appropriate for students, teachers, but alternatives possible." Star News Online. August 5th, 2011: "yes to keeping teachers and school employees from 'friending' their young charges on unsupervised social media sites. But also, “yes” to finding a way to harness the appeal of networking sites for academic purposes – in a safe, controlled environment."
con_1_2	The teacher is not a friend, but an authority figure	 The teacher is not a "friend," but an authority figure "Editorial - Facebook not appropriate for students, teachers, but alternatives possible." Star News Online. August 5th, 2011: "Teachers should not agree to join a student’s list of Facebook friends, engage in texting or other electronic communication that could cast suspicion on the teacher-student relationship. There are boundaries that must not be crossed. The teacher is not a pal, but an authority figure and a mentor who must keep a respectful emotional and social distance."
con_1_3	There's a desk b/w teachers and students for a reason.	There's a desk b/w teachers and students for a reason. "Editorial - Facebook not appropriate for students, teachers, but alternatives possible." Star News Online. August 5th, 2011: "Chairman Don Hayes summed it up well, noting that there is a desk between teacher and student. We have seen what happens when teachers or other school employees push that desk out of the way, from suggestive text messages to full-blown sexual affairs. Sometimes what should go without saying still needs to be said."
con_1_4	Teacher-student friendships just expose unwanted info	 Teacher-student "friendships" just expose unwanted info Josh Wolford at WebProNews: "Let's be honest, social media is a liability. Maintaining a respectable image is incredibly important as a teacher,' and doing so on Facebook can be a challenge. Even when sexual misconduct isn't an issue, 'does a teacher really want Tuesday morning's classroom discussion to be dominated by Monday night's relationship status change from 'engaged' to 'single'?' Why let students know, even inadvertently, that she graded their papers while battling a grueling hangover? On the flip side, do students really want their teacher to know what they were doing all weekend when they were supposed to be studying? I think not."[4]
headline_2	Sexual abuse: Does exclusive access risk sexual abuse?
pro_2_1	Facebook law assumes worse about teachers	 Facebook law assumes worse about teachers Christine Greenhow, an assistant professor at the College of Education and the College of Information Studies at the University of Maryland: "It seems to assume the worst about teachers, that teachers are sexual predators. Amy Mascott, a mother of three and former teacher who started Teach Mama, a blog focusing on education, said: "I feel it immediately colors the teacher-student relationship in a negative way, assuming that all teachers are going to act inappropriately with students."[5]
pro_2_2	Facebook law will hardly impact online/sexual abuse	 Facebook law will hardly impact online/sexual abuse Casey Chan. "Missouri Has Banned Teachers from Being Facebook Friends with Students." Gizmodo. August 1, 2011: "It's supposed to protect anything illicit from ever happening because, uh duh, all those improper statutor-ish relationships begin on Facebook. It's an incubator for rape! It's hell on the internet! Come on. It's pretty silly to think that blocking student and teacher "Facebook friendships" could ever stop this from happening when the weirdos and creepers who get into these nasty messes STILL SEE EACH OTHER IRL EVERYDAY."
pro_2_3	Laws against sexual abuse apply; no need to ban friendships.	Laws against sexual abuse apply; no need to ban "friendships." Laws on the books already exist regarding sexual harassment and abuse of minors. If an administrator, parent, or anybody else discovers an inappropriate relationship between a teacher and student, they will have every recourse to pursue legal action. 
pro_2_4	Risks of sexual abuse exist everywhere; FB law overreacts.	Risks of sexual abuse exist everywhere; FB law overreacts. Inside and outside of school property, there is always a risk of sexual abuse. This does not mean that cameras should be placed in every classroom and on every street corner. A balance must be struct that recognizes individual liberties and the need for safety. The FB law goes too far in violating individual liberties in order to try to solve a risk online that would not receive a proportionally draconian approach offline. 
con_2_1	Exclusive teacher-student relationships are inappropriate.	Exclusive teacher-student relationships are inappropriate. Charol Shakeshaft, professor and chairwoman of the Department of Educational Leadership at Virginia Commonwealth University: "Exclusive and private contact with your students isn't educationally necessary. In the same way that in a school we would say, 'No, you may not lock yourself into a room with a student,' this law effectively says, 'No you may not lock yourself into a website where only you can get to the student.' [...] Anything I need to do as a teacher I can do in a public space or a space that can be accessed by people. If I need to be doing it completely in private, then I shouldn't be doing it."[7]
con_2_2	Banning teacher-student friendships responds to real abuse	 Banning teacher-student "friendships" responds to real abuse While some think that the Facebook law unfairly puts teachers in a negative light, parents are not being irrational in worrying about a teacher potentially taking advantage of students. A 2004 report for the Department of Education found that 10 percent of public school children have been victims of sexual harassment or abuse. A 2007 Associated Press study found that there were 2,500 allegations of sexual misconduct by teachers, school psychologists, administrators and other school employees across 50 states over five years.[8]
con_2_3	Online interactions are used to groom sexual victims.	Online interactions are used to groom sexual victims. Charol Shakeshaft, professor and chairwoman of the Department of Educational Leadership at Virginia Commonwealth University: "A lot of the grooming of students for sexual abuse is now happening over the Internet," Shakeshaft said, noting that in the 50 court cases she has been consulted on involving students being sexually abused by school employees, every one of them involved communication by email, IM, text or a social network.[9]
con_2_4	Any measure to protect students is a good thing.	Any measure to protect students is a good thing. Jennifer Moire. "Missouri Bans Teacher-Student Friendships On Facebook." All Facebook. August 1st, 2011: "The bottom line is that any law that aims to protect students online, and those young people who are over the age of 13 and on Facebook, is a good thing. This is an effort worth monitoring." 
headline_3	Free speech: Teacher-student friendships a free speech/assoc right?
pro_3_1	Banning teacher-student friendships violates free speech/assoc	 Banning teacher-student "friendships" violates free speech/assoc Individuals have a right to associate and communicate with whomever they like in their private time. Forbidding teachers from communicating with their students freely on their private time, for schooling or other purposes, therefore violates their right to free speech and free association.  
pro_3_2	Schools not state should regulate teacher-student friendships.	Schools not state should regulate teacher-student "friendships." It should be left up to schools to set the boundaries for social media. Some schools may need to emphasize teacher-student mentoring in and out of the classroom, for example, and find it important to allow Facebook "friendships" and private communications. And, by making it a school instead of state responsibility, there is less risk of running into first amendment and freedom of association issues; if a student, teacher, or parent doesn't like a policy, they can simply leave (whereas a state law is more binding).
con_3_1	Restrictions allow online comm, just not exclusive ones.	Restrictions allow online comm, just not exclusive ones. Republican State Sen. Jane Cunningham: "We are by no means trying to stop communication, just make it appropriate and make it available to those who should be seeing it," Cunningham said. "Exclusive communication is a pathway into the sexual misconduct."[10] 
con_3_2	FB law places reasonable limits on free speech/assoc.	FB law places reasonable limits on free speech/assoc. There are many limits on free speech, from libel laws to hate crime laws. All of these are intended to address real threats to society. The FB law does the same thing. It does not prohibit speech nor association between students and teachers, but simply limits private, exclusive speech and associations in order to address a real hazard of sexual abuse.
headline_4	Emergencies: Are private comms important for emergencies?
pro_4_1	Online relationships let students in need reach out.	Online relationships let students in need reach out. Laws against teacher-student online "friendships" very well could prevent some students "from confiding in a trusted adult friend who might be able to help them get through serious problems," says Randy Turner, a Missouri middle school teacher, as quoted at PC Mag. "For Joplin students, that could be dealing with the aftermath of losing their homes and having their lives uprooted on May 22. For others, it may be confiding in just the kind of horrific crime that the Amy Hestir Student Protection Act is supposedly designed to eliminate."[11]  
con_4_1	Job of student-counselors to respond to emergencies.	Job of student-counselors to respond to emergencies. Student counselors are there to counsel students during emergencies or broader, challenging life circumstances. They are professionals in this work and teachers should defer to them. It is, therefore, unnecessary and potentially undesirable to look to exclusive online interactions between teachers and students as a means of dealing with student life issues and emergencies. 
headline_5	Enforcement: Can these kinds of laws enforceable?
pro_5_1	Hard to enforce restrictions on student-teacher relationships.	Hard to enforce restrictions on student-teacher relationships. Charlie White at Mashable: "I have to wonder how this law will be policed and enforced without violating anyone's constitutional right to privacy. Will the state be able to access personal computers and social networking accounts to monitor teachers and students? Those in inappropriate relationships will likely be discreet, making such affairs hard to detect."[12]
pro_5_2	Damaging to force teachers to unfriend students.	Damaging to force teachers to "unfriend" students. Many teachers have student friends. Creating a law that prevents their private interactions forces teachers to "unfriend" these students, an action which entails its own set of costs, harm, and regret between both the teacher and student. It would likely confuse children, sending the message that they were doing something wrong even though they were not (the vast majority of exclusive interactions are appropriate). This can be unnecessarily confusing and distressing for students and teachers. 
pro_5_3	What if a teacher has a child in their school?	What if a teacher has a child in their school? Daniel Solove, a law professor and privacy expert who consults with schools on privacy issues, thinks the law is too broad: “What if the teacher has a child who attends the teacher’s school? Does that mean that a parent can’t friend his or her own child on a social media site?"[13]
pro_5_4	What about teachers w/ student-friends at other schools?	What about teachers w/ student-friends at other schools? Daniel Solove, a law professor and privacy expert, said to Forbes in August of 2011: "Who counts as a 'student’?  A student in the teacher’s class? In the teacher’s school? In the teacher’s district? In any school of any time anywhere?"[14]
pro_5_5	Easier to prosecute online than offline sexual abuse.	Easier to prosecute online than offline sexual abuse. "Judge 'Dislikes' Missouri Ban On Teacher-Student Facebook Friendships." Forbes. Ausust 26th, 2011: "if anything inappropriate occurs [online], at least there will be a digital trail to make prosecution easier."
con_5_1	FB law would mostly act to deter teach-student friendships.	FB law would mostly act to deter teach-student "friendships." The main effect of the FB law is to deter teachers from accepting or initiating relationships with students. Most will be effectively deterred knowing that they can be criminally charged if they are discovered. 
con_5_2	School administrators would do most of the monitoring.	School administrators would do most of the monitoring. The state would not have to do much monitoring, if any, of teacher behavior. Instead, school administrators and parents would naturally take up the bulk of this responsibility. If a violation of the law was suspected and reported to the authorities, they could then investigate. This is a manageable recipe for enforcing the "Facebook law." 
con_5_3	Exceptions/exemptions can be created for Facebook law.	Exceptions/exemptions can be created for Facebook law. Reasonable exemptions exist to almost every law. It is easy to, for example, craft exceptions to allow teacher-parents and their student-children to be "friends" on Facebook.
