title	Random sobriety tests for drivers
question	Are random breath tests for drivers a good idea?
headline_1	Rights: Are random searches consistent with individual rights?
pro_1_1	Random sobriety tests are a just public safety intervention	 Random sobriety tests are a just public safety intervention Robert Solomon, a law professor at the University of Western Ontario and the director of legal policy for MADD Canada, argues that implementing random sobriety tests on roads would be a just impingement on Canadian's lives because of the death and injury toll drunk driving is inflicting there: “We have one of the worst records for impaired driving of any comparable democracies." In a paper he co-authored in 2010, he reported The totals for 2007 as being worse than seven years earlier: 210,000 impairment-related crashes, 1,239 deaths, 73,120 injuries. All of this, he argues, justifies the invasiveness of RBT; it protects people and saves lives.
pro_1_2	Operating dangerous vehicles requires giving up some rights.	Operating dangerous vehicles requires giving up some rights. The U.S. Supreme Court held in 1991 that a sobriety-checkpoint program in Michigan did not violate the Fourth Amendment to the federal Constitution. The reasoning by six of the nine justices was that driving a car is a dangerous and regulated activity, and that citizens in their cars are not as immune from police intrusions as when they are in their own homes.[1]
pro_1_3	Random breath tests are done to public vehicle drivers.	Random breath tests are done to public vehicle drivers. It can hardly be called an invasion of privacy or an investigation without due cause, because random tests are routinely carried out by many train and bus companies and are being introduced on airlines as well. This is not considered a breach of employee privacy because public safety is at stake. The same applies for other drivers, who are a major liability to the safety and lives of other drivers.
pro_1_4	RBT just an extension of already strict driving regulations.	RBT just an extension of already strict driving regulations. Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD): "Driving is a heavily regulated, licensed activity occurring on public roads. Drivers are already required to stop and provide documentation when requested by police, and expect to be asked questions about their licenses and sobriety. The Canadian courts have upheld the constitutionality of this random stopping, searching and questioning of drivers in order to maintain traffic safety. RBT would simply be an extension of these court-approved interventions."[2]
pro_1_5	Reasonable suspicion too high standard for detecting drunk drivers	 "Reasonable suspicion" too high standard for detecting drunk drivers "Random breath testing: A needed and effective measure to prevent impaired driving fatalities." BCMJ. December 10th, 2009: "Unless a driver admits to drinking, the police currently need clear visible signs that the driver has consumed alcohol or was driving in an impaired manner in order to demand a roadside screening test. Using this approach, police miss the great majority of drivers with BACs above .05%, even at sobriety checkpoints."
pro_1_6	RBT has been successfully implemented in many modern democracies	 RBT has been successfully implemented in many modern democracies "Random breath testing: A needed and effective measure to prevent impaired driving fatalities." BCMJ. December 10th, 2009: "Random breath testing has been in place in most comparable democracies for as long as 30 years. Finland, Sweden, and France enacted RBT in the late 1970s, followed by Norway and most Australian states in the 1980s, New Zealand and most European countries in the 1990s, and Ireland in 2006. In 2003, the European Commission recommended that all 26 member states introduce comprehensive random breath testing programs." All of this suggests that RBT can be implemented in ways consistent with individual rights in a modern, liberal democracy.
con_1_1	Random sobriety tests amount to unreasonable searches	 Random sobriety tests amount to unreasonable searches "Random breath tests for DUI is a bad idea." Canadian Cincinnatus. October 7th, 2009: "In a free society it should be the case that a citizen can move about at will without ever being hindered by the police. The job of the police officer, who used to be called a peace officer, is to keep the public peace. If the public peace has not been broken he should leave well enough alone, not go around making criminals out of people minding their own business. It is for that reason that the traditional requirement of ‘reasonable grounds” was put into place."
con_1_2	Randomly testing employees is different than testing citizens.	Randomly testing employees is different than testing citizens. People who have to take random breath tests to drive trucks or fly planes as part of their jobs are taking the test as part of their job. They are being paid and must do what their employer wants them to do in order to keep their job. Searching random people outside of the context of employment with no suspicion of a crime is very different. It erodes civil liberties and sets a dangerous precedent.
con_1_3	Random breath tests are an inconvenience and make people angry.	Random breath tests are an inconvenience and make people angry. Generally speaking, inconveniencing innocent people and introducing random sobriety tests into their lives will make many people angry. They may feel violated, on-edge, suspicious, and some times just annoyed. Whether or not that anger or frustration is justified is another matter; these feelings themselves are a negative externality of random breath tests that should be counted against them.
con_1_4	Utility of stopping every car doesn't justify breach of rights.	Utility of stopping every car doesn't justify breach of rights. Dissenting US Supreme Court justices argued in a case that struck down an effort to ban random drug tests in Michigan: "That stopping every car might make it easier to prevent drunken driving...is an insufficient justification for abandoning the requirement of individualized suspicion."[3]
con_1_5	Random breath tests likely to be implemented unequally	 "Random" breath tests likely to be implemented unequally Canadian Liberal MP Ujjal Dosanjh and the former attorney general of British Columbia and a member of the House justice committee: "I wouldn’t want the east side of Vancouver monitored more than the west side of Vancouver because there is a clear economic division in the city."[4]
con_1_7	Random sobriety stops set-up unjust detection of other crimes	 Random sobriety stops set-up unjust detection of other crimes "Random breath tests: A frightening trial-baloon from Rob Nicholson." A BCer in Toronto. October 5th, 2009: "this would seem to open up a huge can of legal worms. You randomly pull someone over for a random breathalyzer test, someone that under normal circumstances you have no legal probable cause for doing so. And in that process, while they blow clean you discover they have committed another offense: let's say, the possession of a small amount of marijuana." 
con_1_8	Random breath tests create slippery slope to expanding police powers	 Random breath tests create slippery slope to expanding police powers
con_1_9	Police will use breath tests as excuse for unreasonable searches	 Police will use breath tests as excuse for unreasonable searches
headline_2	Efficacy: Are they effective at stopping/deterring drunk driving?
pro_2_1	Random breath tests help deter drunk driving	 Random breath tests help deter drunk driving Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD): "RBT deters impaired driving by increasing the perceived chance of detection. For example, in New South Wales, 90% of drivers surveyed thought they might be breath tested."[5]
pro_2_2	People drive drunk because they can get away with it	 People drive drunk because they can get away with it Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD): "Millions of Canadians continue to drink and drive because they can do so with little fear of being stopped, let alone charged and convicted. Recent survey results and charge and conviction data indicate you could drive drunk once a week for more than 3 years before ever being charged with an impaired driving offence, and for over 6 years before ever being convicted. Other survey data would put the figures closer to 6 and a half years before a charge, and nearly 13 years before a conviction."[7]
pro_2_3	Random alcohol breath tests reduce accidents, save lives	 Random alcohol breath tests reduce accidents, save lives The Centers for Disease Control, in a 2002 Traffic Injury Prevention report, found that in general, the number of alcohol related crashes was reduced by 20% in states that implement sobriety checkpoints compared to those that do not. Oregon State Sen. Rod Monroe, D-Portland, extrapolates that such a reduction would mean 30 fewer alcohol-related deaths on Oregon highways, 2,100 fewer serious injuries and millions of dollars in savings to the health care system. Those would be substantial gains.[8]
pro_2_4	RBT has been successful in countries that implement it	 RBT has been successful in countries that implement it "Random breath testing: A needed and effective measure to prevent impaired driving fatalities." BCMJ. December 10th, 2009: "The Australian RBT programs, which have been the most extensively studied, have resulted in dramatic reductions in impaired driving deaths and injuries. For example in Queensland, RBT was estimated to have reduc­ed total fatal crashes by 35% between 1988 and 1992, preventing 789 fatal crashes in that period. In Tasmania, RBT was credited with reducing all serious crashes by 24% in its first year. Similar results have been reported in a number of other countries. Most recently, Ireland’s introduction of RBT in July 2006 was reported to have reduced total annual road fatalities by 19% from the preceding 12 months."
pro_2_5	Random alcohol tests are more effective than alternative measures.	Random alcohol tests are more effective than alternative measures. The federal Justice Department of Canada moved to implement Random Breath Testing (RBT), concluding: "a system of random checks is more effective than a combination of other measures such as a lower threshold for blood alcohol level and more frequent RIDE checkpoints."[9]
con_2_1	Random breath testing doesn't necessarily lower drunk driving	 Random breath testing doesn't necessarily lower drunk driving Many countries have had random testing for some time and have seen no real fall in drink driving figures. For those that have seen such a fall, can you distinguish the effects of random testing from the accompanying advertising and awareness campaigns, which can also be without the testing?
con_2_2	Little evidence random alcohol tests deter drunk driving.	Little evidence random alcohol tests deter drunk driving. There is a dearth of research regarding the deterrent effect of checkpoints. The only formally documented research regarding deterrence is a survey of Maryland's "Checkpoint Strikeforce" program. The survey found no deterrent effect: "To date, there is no evidence to indicate that this campaign, which involves a number of sobriety checkpoints and media activities to promote these efforts, has had any impact on public perceptions, driver behaviors, or alcohol-related motor vehicle crashes and injuries. This conclusion is drawn after examining statistics for alcohol-related crashes, police citations for impaired driving, and public perceptions of alcohol-impaired driving risk."[10]
con_2_3	Repeat drunk drivers unlikely to respond to RBT deterrence.	Repeat drunk drivers unlikely to respond to RBT deterrence. "Random breath tests for DUI is a bad idea." Canadian Cincinnatus. October 7th, 2009: "One statistic the MAD bunch doesn’t like to mention is the fact that half of the people killed by drunk drivers have at least double the legal blood alcohol limit. They don’t like it because it implies that, on a sliding scale, drivers who are barely over the legal limit are probably not that bad. It suggests that problems associated with drunk driving are overwhelmingly caused by a small cadre of hard-core problem drinkers who are sloshed behind the wheel. Unfortunately, these are also the people who are the least responsive to legal incentives, so MAD - and the law - targets ordinary people who have a glass or two of sherry instead."
con_2_4	Everyone knows drunk driving is wrong.	Everyone knows drunk driving is wrong. Of course drink driving is wrong. You are wasting time trying to convince us of that – we all know it. The debate has to be about whether random testing will do anything, and whether it is proportionate to the problem concerned. People still continue to drink drive regardless of knowing they are breaking the law and aware that they may be breath tested. Roads and transport ministers in Australia have even been booked for drink driving.
con_2_5	Most drunk drivers aren't caught through random breath tests.	Most drunk drivers aren't caught through random breath tests. The majority of people caught drink driving have not been from random breath tests. They have been from tip-offs, police chases and police pulling over suspects, not random breath testing. That suggests that random breath tests might be one of the less effective means of catching drunk drivers.
headline_3	Police resources: Are they a good use of police time/resources?
pro_3_1	Good use of police to cultivate awareness on drunk driving.	Good use of police to cultivate awareness on drunk driving. Guaranteeing a culture of awareness that the driver might be subjected to testing – and thereby ensuring people drink responsibly – can be achieved by random testing. It’s a good investment of police time, which will ensure a cultural change that is desperately needed.
pro_3_2	Random breath tests worthwhile; stop offenders, keep roads safe.	Random breath tests worthwhile; stop offenders, keep roads safe. You cannot say that random breath testing is a waste of money. They act not only as a deterrent to drunk driving, but they catch offenders who aren't deterrent. Advertising alongside random breath testing also works to lower road death rates and keep innocent pedestrians and car passengers safer. You cannot say that saving lives is a waste of money.
pro_3_3	Police are already performing random alcohol stops.	Police are already performing random alcohol stops. In reality, even where random testing is not allowed, most officers realize that this is necessary – that is why they often make up reasons to stop people (like claiming they were driving erratically) in order to carry out a de facto random testing system already.
con_3_1	Police time is better spent pursing proper offenders.	Police time is better spent pursing proper offenders. Police time is better spent pursuing those about whom there are concrete suspicions, rather than trawling society at large in the hope of turning something up. Most random breath tests deliver negative alcohol results and it mostly a waste of time. Also, because it is random, offenders could get past while police test thousands of innocent drivers. Since police officers realise this they often (as happened in Western Australia) falsify the information for tests, making up tests, etc. in order to get the requirement to conduct them out of the way – so they can do proper police work.
headline_4	Accurate readings? Are breath test readings fair and accurate?
pro_4_1	The technology used is becoming increasingly accurate.	The technology used is becoming increasingly accurate. The technology used for testing is becoming more and more accurate. Furthermore, attacks on it are oppositions to any sort of breath-testing for drink driving, not just random testing. Presumably the opposition don’t think that we should stop testing completely?
con_4_1	Different people absorb alcohol at different rates.	Different people absorb alcohol at different rates. Bodies absorb alcohol at different rates. This results in very unfair readings – some people will have very little to drink (and be in control), yet still trigger the machine, whilst others will have had more, and are still ‘ok.’ Furthermore, breath test kits make mistakes all the time – that is why people have the right to go for a second test at the police station.
headline_5	Self-regulations: Can individuals self-regulate?
pro_5_1	Alcohol causes poor judgement.	Alcohol causes poor judgement. The opposition can hardly rely on the notion that individuals should be allowed to judge for themselves, since the very point is that people have consistently failed to behave responsibly – that’s why we need testing at all. After all, one of the key effects of alcohol is that it clouds judgement. This is also an opposition to testing in general rather than just random testing.
con_5_1	Individuals should be able to judge whether they are okay to drive.	Individuals should be able to judge whether they are okay to drive. It is still legal to have a drink and then drive – but the culture of nanny state control is increasingly meaning that self-righteous moral pundits condemn people for doing so, when in truth it should be up to the individual to judge whether they are ok to drive. People should be judged by the consequences of their actions, not by theoretical possibilities. Having random tests will only add to this.
