title	Home plate collision rule in baseball
question	Are home plate collisions in baseball worth preserving or banning?
headline_1	Part of game: Are collisions an important part of game?
pro_1_1	Home base collisions are just part of the game	 Home base collisions are just part of the game Catcher Ray Fosse: "The game has been around more than 100 years, and now they're going to start protecting catchers?"[1]
pro_1_2	Home plate collisions are essential tension of offense/defense.	Home plate collisions are essential tension of offense/defense. Dave Cameron. "It's time to end home plate collisions." Fan Graphs. May 26th, 2011: "Rounding the bases, getting to home plate and putting a run on the board for your team is what the game of baseball is all about. A baserunner wants to get there at all costs, whereas a catcher wants to protect it at all costs. The mutual discomfort that's evoked in both the catcher and the baserunner as a play at the plate develops is one of the intriguing peculiarities that makes the game of baseball so great."
pro_1_3	Home base collisions are essential characteristic of hardball.	Home base collisions are essential characteristic of "hardball." Ricky Doyle. "Buster Posey's Injury Unfortunate, But Home-Plate Collisions Still Have Place in Baseball." NESN. May 29th, 2011: "Posey's injury isn't the first injury to result from a collision, and it likely won't be the last. It's extremely unfortunate, but it's the result of a hard-nosed play that is as old as the game itself. To take away the potential for a high-intensity, physical play in an otherwise non-physical sport would be a mistake.
pro_1_4	Runners throw themselves at fielder at second base as well.	Runners throw themselves at fielder at second base as well. Nick Cafardo. "Let’s keep rule change off our plate, please." The Boston Globe. May 29th, 2011: "The argument has been made that at no other base does the runner launch his body at the fielder without trying to slide into the base first. Not true. When runners are trying to break up double plays, are they always near the base?" In other words, such physical contact is a part of the game beyond just at home plate.
con_1_1	Home base collisions shouldn't be preserved for tradition's sake.	Home base collisions shouldn't be preserved for tradition's sake. Just because it's been around for a while does not make it right or necessarily worth preserving. Tradition for tradition's sake arguments are almost always fallacious. 
con_1_2	Home plate contact isn't an important part of game.	Home plate contact isn't an important part of game. Mark Smith. "Home plate collision: It's about the money." May 27th, 2011: "Contact isn’t an important part of the game like it is in football, and it isn’t necessary at the plate."
con_1_3	Collisions aren't allowed anywhere else; why home plate?	 Collisions aren't allowed anywhere else; why home plate? 
con_1_4	Home plate collisions turn baseball players into gladiators.	Home plate collisions turn baseball players into gladiators. Dave Cameron. "It's time to end home plate collisions." Fan Graphs. May 26th, 2011: "I was a catcher in high school, and I was trained how to block the plate while trying to keep myself alive. High School isn’t MLB, but I still found myself in a few situations where a significantly larger player was barreling towards me at full speed, and I realized that I had to stop being a baseball player and start being a gladiator. It was ridiculous to me then and is ridiculous to me now. Millar is right – if you want to watch violent collisions, you can watch football. Or hockey. Or MMA. There’s no reason baseball needs to have similar kinds of plays; it’s an entirely different sport with a different premise and different rules."
headline_2	Entertainment: Do collisions have good entertainment value?
pro_2_1	Home base collisions are exciting to watch.	Home base collisions are exciting to watch. Nick Cafardo. "Let’s keep rule change off our plate, please." The Boston Globe. May 29th, 2011: "When they do occur, they’re exciting. We watch to see how well the catcher blocks the plate, how hard the runner slides, and whether the catcher can hold the ball. As dangerous as that play may be, it’s exciting to watch."
pro_2_2	Pro baseball players are paid to take risks, entertain.	Pro baseball players are paid to take risks, entertain. Fosse told the San Francisco Chronicle. "In high school, you can't run over the catcher. But that is high school. This is professional baseball."
con_2_1	People shouldn't enjoy watching violent hits at home plate.	People shouldn't enjoy watching violent hits at home plate. Why is it that people seem to enjoy aggressive hits at home plate? If they do, it's probably for the wrong reasons. Individuals should probably not enjoy violence between individuals, hits, fights, etc. It's a savage impulse that shouldn't be honored by attaching some entertainment value to home plate collisions. 
con_2_2	The game is worse off with good catchers injured.	The game is worse off with good catchers injured. Dave Cameron. "It's time to end home plate collisions." Fan Graphs. May 26th, 2011: "It’s in the best interest of the sport to keep the likes of Buster Posey and Carlos Santana healthy and on the field. It’s not good for anyone that these guys end up on the disabled list because they were trying to hold their ground." 
headline_3	Protecting players: Is a ban important to protecting players?
pro_3_1	Being a catcher means accepting certain inherent risks	 Being a catcher means accepting certain inherent risks Nick Cafardo. "Let’s keep rule change off our plate, please." The Boston Globe. May 29th, 2011: "Catchers are catchers because they are willing to be leaders and sacrifice their bodies. You never want to see the elite ones such as Joe Mauer and Buster Posey miss a lot of time because of injuries, but that’s the nature of the position."
pro_3_2	Injuries are part of game, don't justify rule changes.	Injuries are part of game, don't justify rule changes. Fadi. "In Defense Of Home Plate Collisions." Red State Blue State. May 27th, 2011: "No one likes to see people get hurt.  No one.  But guess what: it happens.  People get hurt playing baseball all the time.  Sometimes they get seriously hurt.  It sucks.  There’s no denying it. But that still doesn’t make it okay to go off and make drastic rule changes to the game, just because you and your worldwide leader in smut want blog traffic. Hate me ‘cuz it ain’t sugarcoated, just don’t hate me ‘cuz I’m right."
pro_3_3	Catchers don't have to block the plate.	Catchers don't have to block the plate. They can swipe an incoming runner out just as effectively. If they choose to block the plate, than this is their choice, and they are inviting the home plate collision and the risks of injury this entails. In other words, catchers can protect themselves without a rule change.
pro_3_4	Home base collisions, injuries too rare to justify ban	 Home base collisions, injuries too rare to justify ban Mike Rutsey. "Inside Baseball: Colliding views." Toronto Sun. May 27th, 2011: "These days, though, hard, smash-mouth collisions at the plate are rare birds, close to extinction. The reason for this is the money involved as neither the runners nor the catchers are willing to crash into each other willy-nilly as perhaps they did in the past. There is too much on the line financially."
con_3_1	That catchers know risks doesn't mean risks can't be reduced.	That catchers know risks doesn't mean risks can't be reduced. Mark Smith. "Home Plate Collisions." It's About the Money. May 27th, 2011: "Another argument is that Posey and all catchers understand the risk when they sign up to play catcher. It’s notoriously demanding behind the plate, and catchers know what they’re getting themselves into. It sounds good on the surface. Well, what do you think about factory workers? Back at the beginning of the century, they understood the risks of working in Industrial Revolution factories, but society still realized the conditions were too dangerous and changed the situation. Yes, they understand the risks, but that doesn’t mean they should be there to begin with. Yes, if I had the chance to make millions as a catcher, I would do it, but that doesn’t mean I wouldn’t prefer to do it without getting crushed at home plate."
con_3_2	Catcher pads are not meant for human collisions.	Catcher pads are not meant for human collisions. Mark Smith. "Home Plate Collisions." It's About the Money. May 27th, 2011: "I also saw this argument, but I don’t think it was common. Catchers have pads and can withstand being hit. Just in case you believe this, yes, catchers have pads, but they aren’t great. They’re only somewhat helpful against half-pound leather projectiles, but that’s usually one after the ball has hit the ground. They don’t work against 200+ pound athletes barreling into you. Pads don’t always work well enough in football, and catcher pads are much worse at protecting the human body."
con_3_3	Why subject pitchers to even more risks.	Why subject pitchers to even more risks. Dave Cameron. "It's time to end home plate collisions." Fan Graphs. May 26th, 2011: "Major League catchers already endure enough wear and tear on their bodies as is. They break down in their early thirties and have the shortest careers of any position on the field. Why should we also expect them to have to stand in and take hits that no other player on the field has to take? Why do they have to be football players when everyone else gets to play baseball?"
con_3_4	Many collisions have caused career-changing injuries.	Many collisions have caused career-changing injuries. Giants manager Bruce Bochy, a former catcher who had multiple head injuries in his playing days, called on Major League Baseball to explore ideas to protect players after the Buster Posey injury: "I think we do need to consider changing the rules here a little bit because the catcher is so vulnerable and there's so many who have gotten hurt. And not just a little bit, had their careers ended or shortened."[3]
headline_4	Feasibility of change: Is changing the rules feasible, workable, etc?
pro_4_1	Runner can't just stop if catcher has ball.	Runner can't just stop if catcher has ball. Ray Fosse, who was famously injured by Pete Rose in a home base collision, defended such collisions, arguing in 2011: "The idea is to score runs. If the catcher has the ball and he's standing there, the runner has to stop? Is that the protection?"
pro_4_2	Banning collisions would give unfair advantage to runner/catcher.	Banning collisions would give unfair advantage to runner/catcher. Ricky Doyle. "Buster Posey's Injury Unfortunate, But Home-Plate Collisions Still Have Place in Baseball." NESN. May 29th, 2011: "Collisions at home plate aren't always necessary, and should be occur sparingly, but to regulate them would inevitably hand either the baserunner or the catcher an unnecessary advantage in close-play situations. If Major League Baseball was to employ a rule stating that runners must avoid contact with the catcher -- similar to the 'slide or avoid' rule employed in amateur baseball -- it would give the advantage to the catcher. The catcher would have the benefit of dictating the course of action that a baserunner must take, and would -- perhaps more importantly -- have peace of mind knowing that there is no chance of an ensuing collision. If Major League Baseball was to make a rule stating that the catcher cannot block the plate, the advantage would certainly go to the baserunner, who would enjoy the luxury of a straight path to the most sacred ground on a baseball diamond."
pro_4_3	Banning home plate collisions: slippery slope to other limitations.	Banning home plate collisions: slippery slope to other limitations. Fadi. "In Defense Of Home Plate Collisions." Red State Blue State. May 27th, 2011: "Ban home plate collisions? What are you talking about, Buster? It was a freak accident. Ban home plate collisions!?! Why don’t we ban pitching inside too!?! And we should ban breaking up the double play on a hard slide into second!?! How about we ban walk-off celebrations and ban beer in the grandstands, JUST FOR FUN!?!"
con_4_1	Home plate collisions can be easily banned without changing game.	Home plate collisions can be easily banned without changing game. Dave Cameron. "It's time to end home plate collisions." Fan Graphs. May 26th, 2011: "Just change the rules and make intentional contact with a catcher illegal, and make it illegal for catcher’s to impede the baserunner’s ability to run directly towards home plate. It’s a simple fix to a real problem, and there’s no reason why we should continue to delay making this change."
con_4_2	Runners would easily adjust to slide into home plate.	Runners would easily adjust to slide into home plate. Mark Smith. "Home plate collision: It's about the money." May 27th, 2011: "The next argument is what you would have the runner do instead. Slide around, of course. Players only bowl into home because they can. It isn’t allowed at first or third, and it’s only marginally allowed at second. But players don’t run through the defenders there. If there was a rule that took away the option to bowl over the catcher at home, runners wouldn’t even think about doing it. They would slide."  
con_4_3	Ending home plate collisions can be neutral for catcher, runner.	Ending home plate collisions can be neutral for catcher, runner. Mark Smith. "Home Plate Collisions." It's About the Money. May 27th, 2011: "Yes, it’s a dangerous play regardless, but those who would change the rules should change it in favor of the runner and the catcher. The runner cannot run into the catcher. The catcher cannot contact the runner with anything other than his glove, and he cannot drop his knee down to block the plate (those knee pads can be dangerous, and the catcher shouldn’t be throwing his weight around anymore than any other player at another base)."
headline_5	Vs other sports: How does it compare to other sports?
pro_5_1	Dangers are involved in every sport.	Dangers are involved in every sport. Former All-Star catcher Bob Boone: "It's in every sport that we have, there are dangers there. There are dangers for a jockey climbing onto a horse. Do we just let the horses run by themselves and save injures? We see it in football. If we took the pads off and just played flag it be a lot better. We wouldn't have so many injures but it's part of our society. It's why it's so attractive to us, I think."[4]
con_5_1	Other sports have changed rules to make game safer.	Other sports have changed rules to make game safer. Dr. David Geier. "Should MLB ban home plate collisions?" May 30, 2011: "changing rules about trying to score on fly balls would not fundamentally change the game. It would eliminate the collision, not the ability to score on fly balls. It would affect a small component of baseball to make it safer. Eliminating fighting in hockey or tackling in football are not equal comparisons, as some have argued. Eliminating chop blocks in football or body checking from behind in hockey are much better comparisons. They are evolutions of the rules in these sports to protect their players while still maintaining the integrity and nature of the sports."
