title	Child beauty pageants
question	Are child beauty pageants tolerable, or should they be banned?
headline_1	Child abuse: Do child beauty pageants amount to child abuse?
pro_1_1	Parents should be trusted on entering kids in child beauty pageants.	Parents should be trusted on entering kids in child beauty pageants. The Minister for Children and Early Childhood Development, Wendy Lovell, said in regards to a planned beauty pageant in Australia: "we should trust parents to make the right decision for their children."[1]
pro_1_2	Despite outliers, the average beauty pageant is tame.	Despite outliers, the average beauty pageant is tame. Melbourne mother of four Kristin Kyle, who is organising Australia's first beauty pageant in 2011: "We are asking people to educate themselves. Toddlers & Tiaras is a reality TV show. They have to make it dramatic so people will watch it. Our pageant is not going to be like that."[2]
pro_1_3	Beauty pageants teach kids to be their very best.	Beauty pageants teach kids to be their very best. The promoters of Australia's first Universal Royalty Beauty Pagean defended the practice saying that it taught the lesson of "striving to be your very best."[3]
pro_1_4	Parents not pageant system are usually at fault.	Parents not pageant system are usually at fault. "Child Beauty Pageants Pros and Cons." Squidoo: "Toddler beauty pageants pros and cons are both numerous. Child pageants are like just about everything else - there's good and bad. Some pageants are better than others, but most of the problems that occur are often the fault of the parents themselves, and not the pageant or pageant system."
pro_1_5	The majority of pageants are fun for all.	The majority of pageants are fun for all. "Child Beauty Pageants Pros and Cons." Squidoo: "The majority of child pageants are well organized, fair, and fun. The best pageant directors go out of their way to ensure that every contestant has a positive, enjoyable experience."
pro_1_6	Pageants foster positive camaraderie among contestants.	Pageants foster positive camaraderie among contestants. "Pros Of Child Pageants." Squidoo: "The majority of child pageants and pageant parents work toward creating a sense of camaraderie among the contestants. The kids play together backstage, and the parents often help each other. Some contestants have made lifelong friends at pageants. When parents have the right attitude, the children will, too."
pro_1_7	Pageants have lots of fun backstage activities for kids.	Pageants have lots of fun backstage activities for kids. "Pros Of Child Pageants." Squidoo: "Pageants can be a lot of fun for kids. Most pageants sell foods that kids love, including pizza, hot dogs, popcorn, candy, and other snacks. Some of the larger pageants also provide backstage activities for the kids, and a few even have costumed characters interact with the younger girls."
pro_1_8	Beauty contests are little different than competitive sports.	Beauty contests are little different than competitive sports. Ranking girls' beauty is little different from winners and losers at a sports competition. If child beauty contests is considered abusive, then so should little league football, swimming competitions, and gymnastics, among a long list of competitive activities that very young children are allowed to do without complaint.
con_1_1	Child beauty contests amount to child abuse.	Child beauty contests amount to child abuse. "Child beauty pageants. Um, no." Lovelyish. January 15th, 2011: "I'd also like to point out that a little girl screaming, begging her mother not to 'tear it off' as she's held down in a chair for a brow-waxing is not just insensitive on the mother's part - it's abusive. Putting your four year old child through hours of hair-dying, waxing, extreme dieting, tanning, and who knows what else is so she can look like Cindy Crawford is child neglect. Why this is even legal is beyond me. I don't see a difference between repeatedly ripping your kid's hair out in the name of beauty and repeatedly hitting your child in the name of authority."
con_1_2	Moms enter kids into beauty pageants for own insecurities	 Moms enter kids into beauty pageants for own insecurities Leslie Cannold. "The ugly face of child beauty pageants." Sydney Morning Herald. May 21, 2011: "Some pageant mums are living out their own dreams of 'go[ing] somewhere in life', as one mother put it, rather than being 'stuck at home' due to early childbearing. While self-focused female ambition continues to be stigmatised in Western societies – with the ambitious working woman always contrasted unfavourably with the mum who sacrifices her career to stay at home – pageant mums justify their application of false eyelashes or even Botox to their children as evidence of a competitive desire for their daughter to win."
con_1_3	Child beauty pageants are just creepy, insidious.	Child beauty pageants are just creepy, insidious. Shadow Australia attorney-general Martin Pakula said: "There really is no place in Victoria for these pageants." As the father of a five-year-old girl, he found the pageants "creepy" and believes "they are not some innocent baby bonnet parade, they are something a bit more insidious."[4]
con_1_4	Parental ambitions can make kid queens mentally unwell.	Parental ambitions can make kid queens mentally unwell. "Tiaras before bedtime." Sidney Morning Herald. May 1st, 2011: "I have seen stage parents where their ambitions for their child have eclipsed the child's welfare to the point where the child becomes mentally unwell."
con_1_5	Pageants based on bad idea of children being better than others	 Pageants based on bad idea of children being better than others 
con_1_6	Judgement of children to participate can't be relied on	 Judgement of children to participate can't be relied on 
con_1_7	Absurdly young kids are being entered into pageants	 Absurdly young kids are being entered into pageants 
con_1_8	Toddlers and tiaras reveals how beauty pageants exploit kids	 Toddlers and tiaras reveals how beauty pageants exploit kids 
con_1_9	Beauty pageants are not similar to sports for kids	 Beauty pageants are not similar to sports for kids 
con_1_10	Very young kids should not be subject to superficial competition	 Very young kids should not be subject to superficial competition 
con_1_11	Beauty pageants often entail spray tanning 3 year olds.	Beauty pageants often entail spray tanning 3 year olds. 
con_1_12	Beauty pageants encourage kids to seek plastic surgery	 Beauty pageants encourage kids to seek plastic surgery 
con_1_13	Everyone loses but one in beauty pageants.	Everyone loses but one in beauty pageants. There is only one overall winner in beauty pageants. All the rest lose. Most other sports allow for a broader sharing of victory and the sense of accomplishment that can come with that.
con_1_14	Beauty pageants are big business	 Beauty pageants are big business 
headline_2	Life lessons: Do child beauty contests teach good life lessons?
pro_2_1	Beauty pageants teach kids to be their very best.	Beauty pageants teach kids to be their very best. The promoters of Australia's first Universal Royalty Beauty Pagean defended the practice saying that it taught the lesson of "striving to be your very best."[5]
pro_2_2	Beauty contests can boost a child's self-esteem.	Beauty contests can boost a child's self-esteem. The most cited reason parents give for putting their children into beauty pageants is to boost their child’s self-esteem, as well as teach poise, public speaking skills, tact, and confidence.
pro_2_3	Child beauty pageants judge whole person.	Child beauty pageants judge whole person. Some of the criteria considered in judging a pageant are writing skills, interviews, personality, looks, confidence and talent, depending on the specific competition.
pro_2_4	Child beauty contests teaches there will always be somebody better.	Child beauty contests teaches there will always be somebody better. Another child beauty contest mother noted: "I want my child to be aware that there’s always going to be somebody better than her. It’s a hard thing to learn – it was for me – and I want her to start early."[7]
pro_2_5	Beauty contests teach kids how to strive to move up.	Beauty contests teach kids how to strive to move up. You see this a lot among people on the lower-income and education scales. They want their kids to learn skills that are needed to move up the social scale.
pro_2_6	Child beauty contests help teach kids to deal with competition.	Child beauty contests help teach kids to deal with competition. William J. Cromie. "The whys and woes of beauty pageants." Harvard University Gazette. June 8th, 2010: "Parents with higher incomes and education beyond high school often cite teaching a child how to deal with competition as a main reason for entering pageants. Many of them want their daughters to be doctors, dentists, or to have professional careers, Levey discovered in interviews."
pro_2_7	Pageants teach kids to follow rules and play fair.	Pageants teach kids to follow rules and play fair. "Pros Of Child Pageants." Squidoo: "In these cases, child pageants can teach kids to be gracious winners and good losers. They'll learn the aspects of rules and fair play."
con_2_1	Beauty pageants are not good for a child's confidence.	Beauty pageants are not good for a child's confidence. Karen Brooks. "Children’s Beauty Pageants: The Ugly Truth." March 20th, 2011: "Claiming, let alone believing, an arena where very young children are primped like mini-adults and pitted against each other in a bid to decide who’s the prettiest is good for confidence or self-esteem, is to dwell in a fool’s paradise."
con_2_2	Beauty pageants foster destructive perfectionism, self-criticism.	Beauty pageants foster destructive perfectionism, self-criticism. William Pinsof, a clinical psychologist and president of the Family Institute at Northwestern University: "Being a little Barbie doll says your body has to be a certain way and your hair has to be a certain way. In girls particularly, this can unleash a whole complex of destructive self-experiences that can lead to eating disorders and all kinds of body distortions in terms of body image."[8]
con_2_3	Pageants teach that self-worth is in physical beauty only.	Pageants teach that self-worth is in physical beauty only. Melinda Tankard-Reist, one of the founders of Collective Shout: "Competing in these events very young children are taught very early that their only value comes from their appearance and the way they look. This in turn leads to emotional problems, eating disorders and a distorted sense of self worth and self esteem."[9]
con_2_4	Child beauty contests enlarge child egos to unhealthy levels.	Child beauty contests enlarge child egos to unhealthy levels. If you win a bunch of beauty contests at a young age, you might start to thinking you really are better than everyone else your age. This can be unhealthy.
con_2_5	Better alternatives to beauty pageants for building character.	Better alternatives to beauty pageants for building character. Kate Sullivan. "Should Child Beauty Pageants Be Banned Altogether?" Allure.com. May 26th, 2011: "Anything good that a pageant does for a child, something else does it better. As a former basketball player and competitive cheerleader (yes, it's a sport), I know that competition, and the wins and losses that went with it, educated me about the real world. But it's exactly because I did those self-esteem building activities that I know there are options for parents who want confident, happy kids. In a childhood that's full of opportunities for soccer games and spelling bees, why can't we just put away the self-tanner and baby high heels?"
headline_3	Sexualization: Do child beauty pageants over sexualize little girls?
pro_3_1	Beauty pageants aim for beauty, not sexy.	Beauty pageants aim for beauty, not sexy. Beauty pageants are not trying to sexualize children. They are judging children on their beauty and how beautifully they dress and are "made up". Some parents might aim for "sexy", but this does not mean this is a winning formula; it would usually be considered offensive if there was such an over the top attempt. In general, contestants are going for classy, sophisticated, cute, adorable, even if they're only 5 years old. 
pro_3_2	Pageants not to blame for interest of pedophiles.	Pageants not to blame for interest of pedophiles. Swim meets and public beaches are not to blame for pedophiles going to these places to scope out young girls. Neither, therefore, are pageants to blame for pedophiles taking the opportunity to be disgusting human beings. It is the fault of pedophiles, not of beauty pageants. 
con_3_1	Child beauty pageants sexualize children	 Child beauty pageants sexualize children Parents can also contribute to the sexualization of their daughters in very direct and concrete ways - for example, by entering their 5-year-old daughter in a beauty pageant in which she and the other contestants engage in behaviors and practices that are socially associated with sexiness: wearing heavy makeup to emphasize full lips, long eyelashes, and flushed cheeks, high heels to emulate adult women, and revealing “evening gowns.”
con_3_2	Child beauty contests worsen pedophilia, sex abuse	 Child beauty contests worsen pedophilia, sex abuse "Child beauty pageants. Um, no." Lovelyish. January 15th, 2011: "Another problem I have is that these kids are from the same parents who bitch and moan about pedophiles and perverted men watching their kids. Yes, these men are disgusting creatures and every parent has a right to not want them near their children. However, why are you vehemently boycotting pedophiles and other sick people all the while doing this to your kid. Yes, predators are fully responsible for their own actions; these mothers aren't telling them what to do. It just wouldn't be a bad idea if the parent would reevaluate their actions when they start wondering why their child is being stared at by an adult."
con_3_3	Child beauty contests encourage girls to grow-up too fast	 Child beauty contests encourage girls to grow-up too fast 
con_3_4	Strange that pageant judges are often middle-aged men	 Strange that pageant judges are often middle-aged men
headline_4	Gender: Do beauty pageants violate gender boundaries?
pro_4_1	Plenty of other activities are exclusive to boys/girls.	Plenty of other activities are exclusive to boys/girls. Some complain that beauty pageants are exclusive to women, but there are plenty of other sports that are exclusive to one sex or another, such as American football or female field hockey. None of this means that any discrimination is occurring. Rather, it just means that another alternative option exists among a myriad of other options for each sex. Sufficient options for extra curricular activities exist that neither complain that there is any kind of discrimination or unfairness going on.
pro_4_2	Beauty pageants exist for boys.	Beauty pageants exist for boys. There are all kinds of beauty contests for boys as well. They are similar to girl beauty contests in many ways. And, there are other types of beauty-related contests for men, judging their handsomeness and bodies. So beauty contests are not exclusive to females.
con_4_1	Child beauty pageants are almost wholly gender-based.	Child beauty pageants are almost wholly gender-based. Leslie Cannold. "The ugly face of child beauty pageants." Sydney Morning Herald. May 21st, 2011: "Parents who propel their children into after-school study say they want the experience to teach their kids confidence and the value of practice. They also want their sons and daughters to learn how to follow a schedule, to develop the speed necessary to perform well on standardised tests and to become more disciplined and focused. This contrasts with the wish-list pageant mums have for their daughters which includes becoming comfortable on stage, learning poise, how to present themselves and to dress appropriately. The child beauty pageant issue must not become fodder for the seemingly endless mummy wars, or be used to satisfy the rapacious desire of evangelical Christians to have influence over other people's children. Instead, we need to support parents to have the same aspirations for their daughters' development and future success as they do their sons."
