title	Release of Osama bin Laden death photos
question	
headline_1	Proof: Will photos help prove Osama's death, squelch conspiracy theories?
pro_1_1	Osama death photos would squelch conspiracy theories	 Osama death photos would squelch conspiracy theories "Editorial: Release pictures of slain bin Laden." Chicago Sun-Times Editorial. May 3rd, 2011: "One picture can be worth more than a thousand conspiracy theories. For that reason alone the Obama administration should release the grisly photographs of the body of Osama bin Laden, who was slain Sunday in Pakistan during a 40-minute gun battle with Navy SEALs. It is either that or listen to years of sinister speculation that the photos have been withheld to keep the secret that the man who was slain was not bin Laden after all. Already, conspiracy theories are flying around the Internet. If they get out of hand, they’ll make those goofy birther theories look mild and sane by comparison."
pro_1_2	Quick at-sea burial necessitates release of photos as proof.	Quick at-sea burial necessitates release of photos as proof. The quick at-sea burial of Osama bin Laden created some mystery around the event. Burying his body somewhere with some media access would have provided more assurances of his actual death. Therefore, it is especially important to release the photos to provide the assurances that the at-sea burial could not.
pro_1_3	Photos needed to convince non-radical Muslims Osama's dead.	Photos needed to convince non-radical Muslims Osama's dead. Many ordinary Muslims have indicated that they don't believe that Osama Bin Laden is dead. Revealing the photos could help convince them that he is dead.
pro_1_4	Photos would convince doubtful Americans Bin Laden dead.	Photos would convince doubtful Americans Bin Laden dead. Many ordinary Americans, including some of the family members of the 9/11 victims, are doubtful that Osama Bin Laden is dead. These are not crazy people. If they are presented with photo evidence, they will come to accept that his in, in fact, dead.
pro_1_5	Proving Osama's death essential to US national interests.	Proving Osama's death essential to US national interests. US Senator Lindsey Graham: "I know bin Laden is dead. But the best way to protect and defend our interests overseas is to prove that fact to the rest of the world."[1]
pro_1_6	Raid on Osama was about confirming his capture/death.	Raid on Osama was about confirming his capture/death. US Senator Lindsey Graham: "The whole purpose of sending our soldiers into the compound, rather than an aerial bombardment, was to obtain indisputable proof of bin Laden’s death."[2]
pro_1_7	American people deserve confirmation offered by photos	 American people deserve confirmation offered by photos In 2009, photos of the bloodied corpses of Saddam Hussein’s sons, Uday and Qusay, were made public after a U.S. raid on a house in Mosul, Iraq. U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said the Iraqi people "deserve that confirmation."[3]
con_1_1	Sufficient evidence to prove Osama's death without photos.	Sufficient evidence to prove Osama's death without photos. "Editorial: No good would come from release of photos." Detroit Free Press Editorial. May 5th, 2011: "Serious people do not dispute the authenticity of bin Laden's death. Al-Qaida forces he led know it as a fact; family members in Pakistani custody have reportedly verified, at least in broad outline, the accounts relayed to the American public by Obama and his subordinates. Millions of TV viewers have seen video of crime scene details that are consistent with those accounts, and those who suspect such videos may have been forged are unlikely to find photographs of Obama's remains more conclusive."
con_1_2	Bin Laden photos won't change mind of conspiracy theorists	 Bin Laden photos won't change mind of conspiracy theorists Barack Obama said on May 5th that for anyone who doesn't believe Mr. bin Laden is dead, "we don't think that a photograph in and of itself is going to make any difference."[4]
con_1_3	Most of world is convinced Osama is dead without photos.	Most of world is convinced Osama is dead without photos. "Eight reasons why Obama was right not to release photos of Osama bin Laden's body." CS Monitor Editorial. May 4th, 2011: "Many Al Qaeda supporters won't ever be persuaded that he's dead. Most of the world is already convinced."
con_1_4	With Arab spring, the [Muslim] world is over Al Qaeda.	With Arab spring, the [Muslim] world is over Al Qaeda. "Eight reasons why Obama was right not to release photos of Osama bin Laden's body." CS Monitor Editorial. May 4th, 2011: "With the Arab Spring, the world is moving beyond Al Qaeda quickly. Why parade Osama bin Laden's image before the public even more?"
headline_2	Muslim reaction: Will photos incite Muslim reaction, terrorism?
pro_2_1	Al-Qaeda will see withholding photos as sign of their impact.	Al-Qaeda will see withholding photos as sign of their impact. Why they released the death picture of Saddam but don't dare to release that of Osama's? The only reason is that Iraq is down but Al-Qaeda is still there, so their path of terrorism is effective. It is an encouragement to them. 
pro_2_2	US shouldn't kowtow to sensitivities of extremists	 US shouldn't kowtow to sensitivities of extremists Jack Shafer. "Release the Dead Laden Photos." Slate. May 4, 2011: "Obama and Rogers' idea that news should be calibrated by the government to ease the job of the U.S. military makes for a First Amendment loophole you could drive a motorized regiment through. If al-Qaida and its supporters are more irate with the United States this week than they were last week, it's because U.S. commandos killed Bin Laden. Obama should never have marked him for death if tending the 'sensitivities' of al-Qaida and its allies was U.S. policy."
pro_2_3	Death photos destroy myth of Bin Laden's invulnerability.	Death photos destroy myth of Bin Laden's invulnerability. Eugene Robinson. "Why I would've released the bin Laden photos." The Washington Post. May 4th, 2011: "Because while gory photographs would have inflamed some jihadists and wannabes, I believe they would have disillusioned and deflated others. A heroic myth of invulnerability had been built around bin Laden. He was supposed to have cheated death while fighting the Russians in Afghanistan, walking tall through fields of fire as the bullets somehow missed. He escaped the Americans who cornered him at Tora Bora. He evaded capture for a decade, despite the best efforts of the West’s spies and soldiers. Showing him in death would definitively refute any notion that bin Laden enjoyed some kind of divine protection. The myth would die with the man."
pro_2_4	Photos won't upset extremists more than Laden's death	 Photos won't upset extremists more than Laden's death Wojtek Wolfe, a Rutgers-Camden professor: "I don’t know if it’s really going to make the situation any worse. It will upset some people — but those people are already upset. Winning the War of Words: Selling the War on Terror from Afghanistan to Iraq."[5]
pro_2_5	Bin Laden death photos send warning to US enemies.	Bin Laden death photos send warning to US enemies. Sarah Palin wrote on her Twitter account: "Show photo as warning to others seeking America's destruction," she writes. "No pussy-footing around, no politicking, no drama;it's part of the mission."[7]
pro_2_6	Bin Laden death photos may deter would-be terrorists.	Bin Laden death photos may deter would-be terrorists. Harold Evans. "Obama Was Right to Censor the Osama bin Laden Photo." The Daily Beast. May 5th, 2011: "[Releasing the photos] could deter would-be jihadists, who would have to think a little harder when they see the bloodied bodies of Osama's men killed in the firefight in his hideaway, photos obtained by Reuters from a Pakistani security officer and rightly released on Wednesday."
pro_2_7	Concealing Bin Laden photos ascribes them magical powers.	Concealing Bin Laden photos ascribes them magical powers. Barbie Zelizer, author of the recent book About To Die: How News Images Move the Public, says concealing the photos ascribes them "magical powers" that wouldn't otherwise exist.[8]
pro_2_8	Death photos reveal Bin Laden as monster he was.	Death photos reveal Bin Laden as monster he was. Eugene Robinson. "Why I would've released the bin Laden photos." The Washington Post. May 4th, 2011: "The reason to display the photos is to show bin Laden for what he really was: not a holy warrior, not a holy anything, but a deluded mass murderer who met the end he so richly deserved."
pro_2_9	National security secrets not at risk in releasing photos.	National security secrets not at risk in releasing photos. "Openness: Obama should release bloody pictures." Boston Globe Editorial. May 5th, 2011: "If national-security secrets were revealed in the photos, the equation would be different. But that’s not the case with a single image of the terrorist leader’s dead body."
con_2_1	Releasing Bin Laden photos would inflame Muslim world	 Releasing Bin Laden photos would inflame Muslim world White House Spokesman Jay Carney: "There are sensitivities here in terms of the appropriateness of releasing photographs in the aftermath of this firefight. It is fair to say they're gruesome photographs. It is certainly possible that it could be inflammatory."[9]
con_2_2	Osama photos could become icons for rallying extremists	 Osama photos could become icons for rallying extremists Obama defended his decision to withhold photos of Bin Laden's dead body in an interview with CBS News program “60 Minutes,” saying U.S. officials did not want to give extremist groups the ability to use the photos as “propaganda tools.” He tells 60 Minutes: “I think Americans and people around the world are glad that he is gone. But we don’t need to spike the football.”[10]
con_2_3	Bin Laden photo could be seen as insensitive trophies	 Bin Laden photo could be seen as insensitive trophies President Obama said about his decision not to release the photos: "That's not who we are. We don't trot this stuff out as trophies."[11] 
con_2_4	No Middle East allies thought photos would be in their interests.	No Middle East allies thought photos would be in their interests. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton consulted with allies in the Middle East and reported that none thought the release of the photos would be in their interests.[12]
con_2_5	Osama photos likely to provoke violence at US embassies.	Osama photos likely to provoke violence at US embassies. Secretary of State Hilary Clinton and Secretary of Defense Robert Gates vocally worried that the images would provoke anti-American violence at embassies, consulates, and military bases overseas. This is because the Muslim world might look askance at a desecrated dead body, even if it was Osama bin Laden's.[13]
con_2_6	Releasing Bin Laden photos is a national security risk.	Releasing Bin Laden photos is a national security risk. For all of the above reasons, and others, releasing the Bin Laden photos is a national security risk. 
con_2_7	Osama photos could put US troops at even greater risk.	Osama photos could put US troops at even greater risk. Rep. Mike Rogers, R-Mich., the chairman of the House Intelligence panel, opposes making the photos public, saying he doesn't want the images to "make the job of our troops serving in places like Iraq and Afghanistan any harder than it already is. The risks of release outweigh the benefits."[14]
con_2_8	Upside of photos insufficient to counter inflammation.	Upside of photos insufficient to counter inflammation. Ibrahim Hooper, director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations, said releasing macabre pictures "would be unnecessarily inflaming passions in many areas of the world. Why take that risk? The upside is not going to be that great no matter what you do."[15]
con_2_9	Photos of dead bodies offends many Muslims.	Photos of dead bodies offends many Muslims. Some may view an image of a dead body as a violation of the sect’s customs. "Historically speaking, they don’t like photos being taken," said Shaheen Ayubi, an international politics professor at Rutgers-Camden.[16]
con_2_10	Gloating with photos will cheapen achievement of killing Osama.	Gloating with photos will cheapen achievement of killing Osama. "Editorial: No good would come from release of photos." Detroit Free Press Editorial. May 5th, 2011: "White House Press Secretary Jay Carney likened such a move to 'spiking the football,' the sort of grandstanding that tends to cheapen rather than exalt real achievement."
con_2_11	Withholding photos shows US as being respectful.	Withholding photos shows US as being respectful. Erin Valois. "Post Primer: The aftermath of the bin Laden photos." The National Post. May 5th, 2011: "There is nothing wrong with Obama wanting the U.S. to be remembered as respectful during an unforgettable moment in American history."
con_2_12	Bin Laden photos will only worsen America's image abroad.	Bin Laden photos will only worsen America's image abroad. Marc Ambinder and Matthew Cooper. "Why Obama Nixed the Photo Release." National Journal. May 5th, 2011: "the administration likely bet that the last image of bin Laden would be the most enduring: a grotesquerie, an Arab man—albeit a murderous one—felled by a Western bullet. Is that really going to enhance America abroad? No, the president decided."
con_2_13	Withholding Osama photos responsibly weighs foreign reaction	 Withholding Osama photos responsibly weighs foreign reaction 
headline_3	Gruesome: Are the photos tolerable to look at?
pro_3_1	Bin Laden photos could not be too gruesome for nation/world.	Bin Laden photos could not be too gruesome for nation/world. Eric Golub. "Mr. Obama, release the bin Laden photos." The Washington Times. May 5, 2011: "The 'too gruesome' argument is very weak. Americans have seen photos of 9/11, the JFK assassination and Holocaust atrocities. We are adults. We can handle it. It is not the government's job to decide how much we can stomach. News reporters can warn parents to have their children leave the room, and parents can decide what to do next."
pro_3_2	US/world watched 9/11, they can bear to see dead Osama.	US/world watched 9/11, they can bear to see dead Osama. "Was Obama right to withhold bin Laden photos?" May 5th, 2011: "If a nation can be trusted to view the horrors of 9/11 in real time, flip through the Abu Ghraib picture book, witness the made-for-video murder of Daniel Pearl, see images of dead Uday and Qusay on the evening news, and gaze upon pictures of dead soldiers coming home as air freight (photos that President Bush, incidentally, tried to ban in the name of managing the news), then it can be trusted to stomach the last photos of Osama Bin Laden -- and whatever turmoil those photos might cause. Why? Because that's what sort of country the United States is."
pro_3_3	Photos just show Laden with bullet in head; not too gruesome.	Photos just show Laden with bullet in head; not too gruesome. Republican U.S. Rep. Peter King, who was among the lawmakers who had the images described to them, played down concerns over the images' gruesomeness, saying, “They're not going to scare people off. Nothing more than you'd expect with a person with a bullet in his head.”[17]  
pro_3_4	Concealing Osama photos infantilizes the nation.	Concealing Osama photos infantilizes the nation. Jack Shafer said withholding the photos infantilizes the nation in Response to a May 2011 60 minutes interview by Obama. 
pro_3_5	Why provide detailed descriptions but not offer photos?	Why provide detailed descriptions but not offer photos? Barbie Zelizer, author of the recent book About To Die: How News Images Move the Public, finds it paradoxical that the administration would recoil from releasing the photos but gladly provides verbal descriptions of the spectacular raid and Bin Laden's killing. "You can't have it both ways," Zelizer told Jack Shafer of Slate in an interview.[18]
pro_3_6	Photos would help people confront reality of Osama's death	 Photos would help people confront reality of Osama's death 
con_3_1	Exulting over Osama's dead photos barbaric, un-American.	Exulting over Osama's dead photos barbaric, un-American. Harold Evans. "Obama Was Right to Censor the Osama bin Laden Photo." The Daily Beast. May 5th, 2011: "I’d find the exultation of exhibiting the vanquished bin Laden to be obscene, ethically not much different from the Tudors, who liked sticking heads and dismembered torsos around London, or the barbarians of al Qaeda. Obama said it well: 'That’s not who we are. We don’t trot out this stuff as trophies.' It's the jihadists who enjoy celebrating death; we prefer to celebrate life."
con_3_2	Releasing Osama photos would imitate terrorists.	Releasing Osama photos would imitate terrorists. "Eight reasons why Obama was right not to release photos of Osama bin Laden's body." CS Monitor Editorial. May 4th, 2011: "Why imitate the jihadists who post gruesome pictures of their victims?"  
con_3_3	Gruesome photos will overshadow victory of Osama's death.	Gruesome photos will overshadow victory of Osama's death. Philip Gourevitch. "Don't release the photos." New Yorker. May 3rd, 2011: "ABC News is reporting that the first image of bin Laden that the White House may show us is 'bloody and gruesome, with a bullet wound to his head above his left eye.' If it’s released, this is the image that will instantly supplant every other account of Sunday’s raid as the iconic representation of America’s moment of triumph over its most wanted enemy. Is that what we want—the official equivalent of the Saddam hanging video? Did we learn nothing from the past decade about the overwhelming power of crude images of violence to define and polarize our historical moment? The Abu Ghraib photographs were unofficial documents of an official policy that was supposed to be kept secret, but if nothing else, they should have taught us that a photograph of the violence you inflict is always, in very large measure, a self-portrait. In getting rid of bin Laden, Obama as made the greatest step yet toward being able to put that era behind us. Do we want a photo of bin Laden’s bullet-punctured skull to eclipse this moment?"
con_3_4	Withholding photos resists blood-lust, morbid curiosity.	Withholding photos resists blood-lust, morbid curiosity. Most people want to see the photos out of a morbid curiosity, or due to an even more pernicious blood-lust. This should not be catered to. It is a barbaric desire that has been satisfied many times in the past, but that a modern America need not satisfy. 
con_3_5	Children should be spared images of dead Bin Laden	 Children should be spared images of dead Bin Laden 
headline_4	Freedom of information: Is there a free info imparative?
pro_4_1	Bin Laden death photos are part of public news record.	Bin Laden death photos are part of public news record. Barbie Zelizer, author of the recent book About To Die: How News Images Move the Public, says the photos are "part of the record, part of the news event."[19]
pro_4_2	Not Obama's job to manage news and reactions to photos.	Not Obama's job to manage news and reactions to photos. Jack Shafer. "Release the Dead Laden Photos." Slate. May 4, 2011: "it's not the White House's business to control and manage news for the good of the nation based on some imagined worst-case reaction to events. That's Soviet thinking."
pro_4_3	If the photos are not released they will be leaked.	If the photos are not released they will be leaked. Eric Golub. "Mr. Obama, release the bin Laden photos." The Washington Times. May 5, 2011: "In a world of Facebook, Twitter, DNA and Wikileaks, nothing stays hidden forever. If the photos are leaked (and they will be) before they are released by the government, it will damage Obama and perhaps the country as well."
pro_4_4	US has history of releasing photos of killed enemies.	US has history of releasing photos of killed enemies. "There Once Was A Time When The U.S. Military Enjoyed Spiking The Football," wrote The Smoking Gun. The staff generated a series of WWII-era newsreel reports of U.S. officials killing Nazis via firing squad and hanging. If the practice was common in recent US history, why should we look down upon it now?[20]
pro_4_5	Obama allowed photos of dead soldiers, why not Osama?	Obama allowed photos of dead soldiers, why not Osama? The Drudge Report recounts when in 2009 that the president lifted the 18-year-old military policy banning photographs of flag-draped coffins. It wonders aloud that the death-related photos didn't seem to bother him then. Why now?[21]
pro_4_6	Withholding photos fosters damaging debate on issue.	Withholding photos fosters damaging debate on issue. Why draw this debate out? Withholding the photos is creating more debate and animosity within the USA than releasing them would. Avoiding such divisiveness at a time when Americans should be celebrating is very important.
pro_4_7	Obama should favor openness over censorship with Osama photos	 Obama should favor openness over censorship with Osama photos 
pro_4_8	Concealing Osama photos sets bad precedent on gruesome news.	Concealing Osama photos sets bad precedent on gruesome news.
con_4_1	Just to withhold Osama photos for national security reasons.	Just to withhold Osama photos for national security reasons. It is clearly acceptable for the Commander in Chief to withhold information if there is a clear national security imperative in doing so. Obama has judged that releasing the photos would irritate the Muslim world and incite further incidence of violence and terrorism. On this basis, withholding them is clearly justified. [See below for arguments on why releasing the photos could be a national security risk. 
con_4_2	Withholding Osama photos like censoring death penalty photos.	Withholding Osama photos like censoring death penalty photos. "Eight reasons why Obama was right not to release photos of Osama bin Laden's body." CS Monitor Editorial. May 4th, 2011: "It's standard practice in US death-penalty cases not to release images of the executed." By comparison and precedent, it is completely acceptable to withhold photos for the purpose of maintaining decency in the images that the government officially releases for public viewing. 
con_4_3	Withholding photos lets Obama own event even more.	Withholding photos lets Obama own event even more. Marc Ambinder and Matthew Cooper. "Why Obama Nixed the Photo Release." National Journal. May 5th, 2011: "Though the White House won't say it, not releasing the photos means that the images one associates with the death of bin Laden are those of Obama making the announcement and Obama and team waiting in the Situation Room. Not releasing the photos helps Obama own this event even more."
con_4_4	Withholding images let's world move forward to new tasks.	Withholding images let's world move forward to new tasks. "Eight reasons why Obama was right not to release photos of Osama bin Laden's body." CS Monitor Editorial. May 4th, 2011: "8. Let's now focus on further tasks to suppress jihadists."
