title	Osama Bin Laden Sea Burial
question	Was burying Osama Bin Laden at sea the right choice?
headline_1	Religious sensitivities: Was the burial sensitive to Muslim faith?
pro_1_1	Islamic traditions followed in Bin Laden burial.	Islamic traditions followed in Bin Laden burial. Traditional washing of the body was followed by wrapping in white sheets, and a military officer read religious remarks that were translated by a native Arabic speaker, before bin Laden was eased into the sea. This is an adequately respectful ceremony, given the circumstances and sensitivities involved in a land-burial.
pro_1_2	Sea burial only option consistent with 24-hour Islamic rule.	Sea burial only option consistent with 24-hour Islamic rule. Adviser John Brennan, White House Spokesman: "There were certain steps that had to be taken because of the nature of the operation. We wanted to make sure we were able to do that in the time period allotted for it. Going to another country, making those arrangements, requirements, would have exceed that time period, in our view."[1]
pro_1_3	Land burial only a tradition, not in Quran.	Land burial only a tradition, not in Quran. Jacksonville Imam Enrique Rasheed: "It's just a tradition, it's not in the Quran. The idea is that we come from the earth and we return to the earth."[2] In other words, a sea burial is only a break with an Islamic tradition, not a break with the fundamental precepts of Islam itself.
pro_1_4	Sea burial pays respect to Islam, not to Bin Laden.	Sea burial pays respect to Islam, not to Bin Laden. McKay Coppins. "Osama Bin Laden's Controversial Sea Burial." The Daily Beast. May 2nd, 2011: "The U.S. government wasn’t paying respect to bin Laden himself, but rather to the rites of Islam – a faith with millions of peaceful adherents who would be dismayed to see the U.S. government treat the Koran’s teachings cavalierly." 
pro_1_5	Islamic law flexible to special burials such as Bin Laden's.	Islamic law flexible to special burials such as Bin Laden's. Khalid Latif, chaplain at New York University and director of its Islamic Center, said Islamic law is fairly "flexible" in how it handles burials, especially in exceptional cases such as Bin Laden's. The question would be not "how to bury a body, but how Osama bin Laden's body would be buried."[3]
con_1_1	Why give Osama Bin Laden a dignified religious burial?	Why give Osama Bin Laden a dignified religious burial? "Growing Controversy Over Bin Laden's Sea Burial." Fox News. May 2nd, 2011: "why would we respect this dirtbag's religion in giving him an appropriate burial. 
con_1_2	Bin Laden sea burial takes religious sensitivities too far.	Bin Laden sea burial takes religious sensitivities too far. US Senator Lindsay Graham: "I’m not so sure that was a wise move. [...] think that may have been sensitivity taken too far."[5]
con_1_3	Giving Bin Laden religious respects degrades Islam.	Giving Bin Laden religious respects degrades Islam. American Islamic leader Jasser said Osama bin Laden is not worthy of that respect. "As one who is devoted to Islam and its ideology, it makes me nauseated and sick that someone would make sure he had a religious rite given to a man like this because he was an evil barbarian who declared war against our nation."[6]
con_1_4	Bin Laden sea burial violates Islamic tradition.	Bin Laden sea burial violates Islamic tradition. Sea burials can be allowed in Islamic tradition, but only in special cases where the death occurred aboard a ship. Dr. Zuhdi Jasser, president of the American Islamic Forum for Democracy and a physician of internal medicine: "Dumping the body into the sea is not part of any Islamic ritual. Koranic scripture says God created him and he must return to the earth."[7]
con_1_5	Remains buried at sea are considered lost by Muslims.	Remains buried at sea are considered lost by Muslims. Mahmoud Ayoub, professor of Islamic Studies at Hartford Seminary, said that Muslims consider remains buried at sea to be lost, not buried. "Burial at sea is not acceptable."[8]
con_1_6	Many Muslims would have preferred to see body, confirm death.	Many Muslims would have preferred to see body, confirm death.  “why would the Americans do that?” reposed a comment on Facebook, according to Arab News. “They are hiding something. Where is the proof that he died? Show me the picture. If he were killed which the Americans say he was then it would make immense sense for them to make the body public."[9]
headline_2	War on terror: Is it good for the broader war?
pro_2_1	Sea burial avoided shrine for Islamic terrorists	 Sea burial avoided shrine for Islamic terrorists The last thing the US, West, and broader world wanted was to create a burial place which could become a terrorist shrine. To avoid this, bin Laden was buried at sea.
pro_2_2	Appropriate advisers concluded sea burial was best.	Appropriate advisers concluded sea burial was best. A white house spokesman said, "we consulted the appropriate specialists and experts, and there was unanimity that this would be the best way to handle that."[11]
pro_2_3	At-sea burial determined best before Bin Laden's death.	At-sea burial determined best before Bin Laden's death. "Islamic scholars split over sea burial for Bin Laden." NY Times. May 2nd, 2011: "White House officials decided before Monday’s firefight in northern Pakistan that if American troops killed Osama bin Laden, they would bury him at sea in order to prevent his grave from becoming a shrine for his followers, a White House official said Monday. They planned to include all rites associated with Muslim burials, the official added."
con_2_1	Sea burial doubts diminishes blow to terrorists.	Sea burial doubts diminishes blow to terrorists. If terrorists are not sure whether Osama bin Laden was killed, and believe the United States may have actually faked his death, they may continue to believe he is alive and draw inspiration from that idea. 
con_2_2	Bin Laden sea burial aims to humiliate Muslims.	Bin Laden sea burial aims to humiliate Muslims. Omar Bakri Mohammed, a radical cleric in Lebanon: The Americans want to humiliate Muslims through this burial, and I don't think this is in the interest of the U.S. administration."[12]
con_2_3	Releasing photos to prove death will also anger Muslims.	Releasing photos to prove death will also anger Muslims. The graphic nature of these images could inflame anti-American zeal even more than having allowed the media to have a look. So a sea burial is little better than giving him a proper land-burial, which while it's possible that it will act as a shrine for terrorists, would be little more inflammatory than releasing pictures of his death.  
headline_3	Conspiracy: Can doubts and conspiracy theories be quelled?
pro_3_1	Evidence proves death of Osama bin Laden.	Evidence proves death of Osama bin Laden. "Bin Laden's sea burial fuels conspiracy theories." Los Angeles Times. May 2, 2011: "Administration officials insisted Monday that there was no question who was killed in the Pakistani raid. Along with being visually identified on the scene by U.S. operatives, Bin Laden was identified by name by a woman believed to be one of his wives, according to a senior intelligence official. On Sunday evening, CIA specialists compared photos of the body with known photos of Bin Laden, determining with 95% certainty that they were one and the same. On Monday morning, the CIA and other agencies conducted an 'initial DNA analysis,' comparing a sample taken from the body with DNA samples from several Bin Laden family members. The results, the official said, gave them 'a virtually 100% DNA match.' The intelligence community has been collecting DNA samples from Bin Laden relatives for years, according to another U.S. intelligence official. Because the family is so big, obtaining samples was not difficult, officials said, particularly from relatives who denounce Bin Laden's activities. Rep. Mike Rogers (R-Mich.), chairman of the House Intelligence Committee and a former FBI agent, confirmed that the government had more than one source of DNA. 'Through the DNA testing and other things, it is clear beyond a shadow of a doubt that this was Osama bin Laden, based on the science,' he said."
con_3_1	At-sea burial fosters doubt that Bin Laden was killed.	At-sea burial fosters doubt that Bin Laden was killed. "Growing Controversy Over Bin Laden's Sea Burial." Fox News. May 2nd, 2011: "with all the conspiracy theorists out there, why dump Bin Laden's body in the ocean where it will just spawn conspiracies that we didn't kill him?"
con_3_2	At sea burial fuels conspiracy theories about US govt.	At sea burial fuels conspiracy theories about US govt. Antiwar activist Cindy Sheehan posted on her Facebook page: "I am sorry, but if you believe the newest death of OBL, you're stupid. Just think to yourself — they paraded Saddam's dead sons around to prove they were dead — why do you suppose they hastily buried this version of OBL at sea?"[13] Infowars, the website of Libertarian radio host Alex Jones, charged that the U.S. government had concocted the killing to justify a security crackdown. The Tea Party Nation website questioned the timing of Obama's announcement: "Don't you think OBAMA needs something to assure his reelection," one commenter wrote.[14]
con_3_3	Americans deserved to see Osama bin Laden's body.	Americans deserved to see Osama bin Laden's body. Rosaleen Tallon, brother of 9/11 victim Sean Patrick Tallon, said at a press conference: "I wouldn't be honest if I didn't say I was a little dismayed — a lot dismayed, I think that was too hasty. I would've liked the American people to say without a shadow of a doubt, 'Yes, that's him.'"[15]
con_3_4	Doubts with sea burial undermine closure for 9/11 victims.	Doubts with sea burial undermine closure for 9/11 victims.
headline_4	Only option: Was sea burial the only option?
pro_4_1	No alternative to sea burial was available.	No alternative to sea burial was available. 
pro_4_2	Sea burial elegant solution to burying Bin Laden's corpse	 Sea burial elegant solution to burying Bin Laden's corpse 
pro_4_3	No country would accept his body; sea burial appropriate.	No country would accept his body; sea burial appropriate.
pro_4_4	Nobody wanted Bin Laden buried near them.	Nobody wanted Bin Laden buried near them. Khalid Latif, chaplain at New York University and director of its Islamic Center: "people don't want him buried near them or their loved ones."[16] 
pro_4_5	Bin Laden land burial invites people to lash out against him.	Bin Laden land burial invites people to lash out against him. Khalid Latif, chaplain at New York University and director of its Islamic Center: "Giving him a place on land would create an opportunity for many individuals to unleash and lash out their rage against him. He made lives terrible for so many of us."[17]
