title	High-speed rail
question	Is high speed rail development generally good policy?
headline_1	Vs. air travel: How does high-speed rail compare to air travel?
pro_1_1	High-speed train stations can be positioned in city centers.	High-speed train stations can be positioned in city centers. While the travel time by plane itself cannot be beaten by currently known high-speed trains, the airports usually lie rather far from cities (due to the noise created by aircraft) and this increases the overall time needed for a trip. High-speed rail station, on the other hand, can be positioned in a city center, so for short- and even mid-range travels, high-speed rail could be actually faster than airplane.
pro_1_2	No need to turn off electronics, etc., on trains	 No need to turn off electronics, etc., on trains US High Speed Rail Association. CONVENIENCE OF HIGH SPEED RAIL: "High speed rail offers its riders the easiest, most comfortable way to travel.  Easy access to downtowns, little or no delays, no security lines, fast boarding, few restrictions, plenty of leg room, a cafe nearby, and a fast ride to your destination - this is what high speed rail delivers day after day."
pro_1_3	High-speed rail allows people to see/visit new places.	High-speed rail allows people to see/visit new places. "The Case For High Speed Rail." Bright Green. March 2nd, 2011: "I’ve talked to people who choose to go day trips to places they’ve never considered before after seeing them from a train window."
pro_1_4	High-speed rail helps relieve air-travel congestion.	High-speed rail helps relieve air-travel congestion. US High-Speed Rail Association: "HIGH SPEED RAIL = FREEDOM! Freedom from the daily hassles, delays, dangers, and problems America's transportation systems have become."
pro_1_5	Rail travel has fewer weather related delays.	Rail travel has fewer weather related delays. Rail travel has less weather dependency than air travel. If the rail system is well-designed and well-operated, severe weather conditions such as heavy snow, heavy fog, and storms do not affect the journeys; whereas flights are generally canceled or delayed under these conditions. Nevertheless, snow and wind can cause some issues and can delay trains.
con_1_1	Airplanes better than high-speed trains for long distances	 Airplanes better than high-speed trains for long distances Jack Mobley. "A case against high-speed rail." Merced Sun Star. December 11th, 2010: "For long distances, the advantage of air travel over the train is obvious. Why would someone ride a train when one can buy a ticket and fly the same Los Angeles-to- San Francisco route in half the time for nearly half the proposed high-speed rail fare?"
con_1_2	Improving airport access better than new high-speed rail.	Improving airport access better than new high-speed rail. If the problem with airports is that they are too hard to get to, then access should be improved, with public transit such as light rail systems extending to the airport. This would cut the overall trip-time associated with air-travel, and would make high-speed transport less important.
con_1_3	High speed rail cannot seriously displace air travel.	High speed rail cannot seriously displace air travel. "On the wrong track: Why high-speed trains are not such a green alternative." Guardian. April 29th, 2010: "HSR is promoted as something that can sort out nasty carbon-producing aircraft on domestic routes. It has done this on the Paris-Lyon and Madrid-Seville lines, but this ability to trash a single air route should not be interpreted as something than can dent the growth of air travel. Germany has one of the largest HSR systems in the world, yet has seen an explosion in internal air travel."
headline_2	Vs upgrading: HSR better than upgrading old infrastructure?
pro_2_1	Upgrading existing lines is ineffective solution.	Upgrading existing lines is ineffective solution. Philip Hammond. "High Speed Rail: the case for." The Telegraph. November 26th, 2010: "Opponents of the project have asked why we cannot simply upgrade our existing infrastructure to deal with this capacity challenge. But no upgrade of existing infrastructure can deliver the huge improvements in journey times and the transformation of our economic geography that a new high speed network would bring. Reliability would also deteriorate as we tried to squeeze ever more capacity out of existing, mixed-use lines. And another major upgrade to the West Coast Main Line would deliver years of disruption and huge economic cost." 
pro_2_2	High-speed rail has greater capacity than roads.	High-speed rail has greater capacity than roads. Railroad tracks permit a far higher throughput of passengers per hour than a road the same width. A high speed rail needs just a double track railway, one track for each direction. A typical capacity is 15 trains per hour and 800 passengers per train (as for the Eurostar sets), which implies a capacity of 12,000 passengers per hour in each direction. By way of contrast, the Highway Capacity Manual gives a maximum capacity for a single lane of highway of 2,250 passenger cars per hour (excluding trucks or RVs). Assuming an average vehicle occupancy of 1.57 people,[50] a standard twin track railway has a typical capacity 13% greater than a 6-lane highway (3 lanes each way), while requiring only 40% of the land (1.0/3.0 versus 2.5/7.5 hectares per kilometer of direct/indirect land consumption). This means that typical passenger rail carries 2.83 times as many passengers per hour per meter (width) as a road. 
pro_2_3	High-speed rail offers freedom	 High-speed rail offers freedom US High-Speed Rail Association: "HIGH SPEED RAIL = FREEDOM! Freedom from the daily hassles, delays, dangers, and problems America's transportation systems have become." 
con_2_1	Expanding roads and runways better than high-speed rail.	Expanding roads and runways better than high-speed rail. Jack Mobley. "A case against high-speed rail." Merced Sun Star. December 11th, 2010: "The argument that not building this train system would mean building more highways and more runways doesn't hold water either. If we're going to have to build one or the other, why not build the one which gives us the better options, namely more highways and runways? Lanes can be added to existing highways and more runways added to existing airports more easily than overcoming the logistical nightmare of 800 miles of high-speed rail cutting through the heart of California."
con_2_2	Train capacity can be increased without HSR	 Train capacity can be increased without HSR "On the wrong track: Why high-speed trains are not such a green alternative." Guardian. April 29th, 2010: "High-speed rail will indeed increase capacity, especially if it proceeds on German and French models and produces new lines across open countryside. But what is not addressed is why we need the increased capacity, and whether or not this is the right way to go about it. Capacity is routinely increased in mainland Europe by using double-decker trains for passenger travel."
con_2_3	Decentralized country planning better than high speed rail.	Decentralized country planning better than high speed rail. "On the wrong track: Why high-speed trains are not such a green alternative." Guardian. April 29th, 2010: "We could even have a policy about developing strongly independent cities, such as those in Germany. The "need" to travel to London is a result of decades of public and private policy and cash to centralise functions there and to avoid the idea that Newcastle upon Tyne, Leeds, Manchester, Birmingham and Liverpool could operate as high-level attractive financial, cultural, corporate HQ and media centres, just as Frankfurt, Munich and Hamburg do in Germany."
con_2_4	High speed rail based on falsely seductive idea of speed.	High speed rail based on falsely seductive idea of speed. "On the wrong track: Why high-speed trains are not such a green alternative." Guardian. April 29th, 2010: "There is something quite seductive about speed. It sounds good, and economists cling to the misleading idea that saving time saves money and produces an economic bonus that the whole of society can share." 
headline_3	Environment: Is high-speed rail environmentally friendly?
pro_3_1	High-speed trains are highly sustainable and green.	High-speed trains are highly sustainable and green. US High-Speed Rail Association: "Trains are the most sustainable & green form of transportation. Electric high speed rail is the most energy efficient of all trains.  A national high speed rail system is the centerpiece of a sustainable America, and will significantly reduce congestion and our dependence on cars and oil, while cutting our carbon emissions by epic proportions.  The entire system can be powered by clean, safe renewable energy including wind, solar, geothermal, and ocean/tidal.  Clean electric trains are a major form of daily transportation in numerous countries, and are the single most powerful transportation choice that can solve serious mobility, energy, environmental, economic, health, and social problems simultaneously - on a global scale."
pro_3_2	High speed rail efficiently increases capacity.	High speed rail efficiently increases capacity. US High-Speed Rail Association: "True high speed rail (186+ mph) shortens trip times more than 70% over slower, conventional rail. This increased speed equates to faster trips, higher ridership, and far greater overall capacity of the system to carry much higher numbers of people each day.  In addition, each train can do more round trips per day, requiring less equipment, and making the true high speed rail business model far more profitable than slower, conventional rail." 
pro_3_3	High speed rail creates green jobs	 High speed rail creates green jobs 
con_3_1	More travel with high-speed rail is bad for environment.	More travel with high-speed rail is bad for environment. "On the wrong track: Why high-speed trains are not such a green alternative." Guardian. April 29th, 2010: "If we are serious about reducing our carbon emissions by 80% by 2050, we should not move towards higher speed, more carbon intensive forms of transport and a policy of increasing the mass of travel."
con_3_2	Too few will ride HSR to have environmental impact.	Too few will ride HSR to have environmental impact. Samuel Staley. "The Pragmatic Case Against High-Speed Rail." Reason Foundation. June 22, 2009: "It won't relieve urban traffic congestion and its contribution to improving air quality (or reducing carbon dioxide emissions) will be negligible because it won't carry enough riders to make a big difference." 
headline_4	Economics: Is high-speed rail economically advantageous?
pro_4_1	High-speed rail creates many jobs.	High-speed rail creates many jobs. Philip Hammond. "High Speed Rail: the case for." The Telegraph. November 26th, 2010: "In the short term, it would create thousands of jobs planning, constructing and operating the line, as well as creating regeneration opportunities." 
pro_4_2	High-speed rail fosters transit-oriented development.	High-speed rail fosters transit-oriented development. US High-Speed Train Association: "Transit oriented development (TOD) is the exciting new fast growing trend in creating vibrant, compact, livable, walkable communities centered around high quality train systems.  TODs can be stand-alone communities, or a series of towns strung along a rail line like pearls on a string.  TODs are the integration of community design with rail system planning. High speed rail is the backbone of a rail-based transportation system.  When combined with regional rail, light rail, metro systems, streetcars and trams, a complete and integrated rail network is achieved enabling easy, fast mobility throughout the system.  Coordinating and encouraging compact, mixed-use development around the rail stations completes the system by enabling people to live, work, and play along the system without the need for a car much of the time.  Together, these save time, money, energy, and lives."  
pro_4_3	High-speed rail helps businesspeople be more productive.	High-speed rail helps businesspeople be more productive. US High-Speed Rail Association: "High speed rail delivers fast, efficient transportation so riders can spend less time traveling and more time doing business.  High speed rail delivers people quickly to their destinations in city centers.  Fast boarding times, no security delays, and no waiting for baggage (or lost bags) adds up to much less time spent getting to and from meetings.  Adding to these savings, there's also little or no down time - people can be far more productive and efficient during a trip on a train, than flying or driving, and return to the office sooner with a shorter turn-around time. High speed rail allows people to continue working the entire trip using laptops and cell phones.  Flexible meeting space is available on the train.  Because of the reliability of trains and the reduced total trip time, an overnight stay is not always required - saving additional time and money.  High speed rail offers great flexibility to plan last minute trips, purchase tickets on short notice, and make changes to schedules without huge penalties." 
pro_4_4	High speed rail policy is pro economic growth.	High speed rail policy is pro economic growth.
pro_4_5	High-speed rail will get subsidies, but so do autos.	High-speed rail will get subsidies, but so do autos. "automobiles and airplanes already get along with massive subsidies. In 2009, the Department of Transportation ran a $70 billion budget, more than half of which went to the federal highway system. The airline industry only got through the post-9/11 years with considerable help from the U.S. government, and taxpayers pay more than 90 percent of the cost of some small-airport flights."
pro_4_6	High-speed rail can be funded by decreasing military spending.	High-speed rail can be funded by decreasing military spending. "HSR Opponents Make the Case for High-Speed Rail." Yglesias. November 2nd, 2010: "It seems to me that an 8.1 percent reduction in defense expenditures in order to create a transformative nationwide new infrastructure program would be a no-brainer."
pro_4_7	High-speed rail decreases travel-time between cities.	High-speed rail decreases travel-time between cities.
pro_4_8	High-speed rail frees up existing rail for other purposes.	High-speed rail frees up existing rail for other purposes. Philip Hammond. "High Speed Rail: the case for." The Telegraph. November 26th, 2010: "High Speed Rail would also address the major rail capacity challenges that are set to arise over the next 20 years. By shifting long-distance services onto the new line, we would free up valuable capacity for commuter, regional and freight services."
pro_4_9	High-speed rail is a valuable national investment	 High-speed rail is a valuable national investment 
pro_4_10	High speed rail is a great tourist attraction.	High speed rail is a great tourist attraction. It is a fun ride to a big city destination. 
pro_4_11	High speed rail reduces oil trade imbalance.	High speed rail reduces oil trade imbalance. It pays for itself by significantly reducing our $700 billion a year oil purchase trade deficit.
con_4_1	High-speed rail is predominantly used by wealthy.	High-speed rail is predominantly used by wealthy. "On the wrong track: Why high-speed trains are not such a green alternative." Guardian. April 29th, 2010: "Supporters of HSR talk about a total bill of £11bn from public funds. This is likely be a considerable underestimate, but even if correct it is a huge commitment to something regressive. HSR is used by high-income passengers, and the £11bn would be a public investment from all taxpayers to encourage wealthy individuals to travel to and from London more often and at a higher speed. This is far less important than sorting out local travel in all cities, commuter travel around all cities, and inter-regional travel."
con_4_2	High-speed rail can't work without subsidies.	High-speed rail can't work without subsidies. CATO's Tad DeHaven: "As is the case with Amtrak, HSR can't compete with more efficient modes of transportation like automobiles and airplanes without massive subsidies."[1]
con_4_3	High speed rail not best way to create local jobs.	High speed rail not best way to create local jobs. "On the wrong track: Why high-speed trains are not such a green alternative." Guardian. April 29th, 2010: "If we really want to create jobs in all local economies, rather than drain them away along a very fast railway line, we could insulate 20m homes; make every house a mini-power station to generate and export its own electricity; sort out extremely poor quality commuter railway lines around all our cities; improve inter-regional rail links; and build 10,000 kms of segregated bike paths to connect every school, hospital, employment site and public building to every residential area."
con_4_4	High-speed rail only works between close cities	 High-speed rail only works between close cities Samuel Staley. "The Pragmatic Case Against High-Speed Rail." Reason Foundation. June 22, 2009: "Certain preconditions are necessary for corridor transit to work, and they don't exist in the U.S. Most fundamentally, intercity rail needs to connect major urban downtowns or large employment centers that are close together--withing a couple hundred miles of each other. (In this respect, the emphasis on density per se is misplaced; the key is the density of the destinations.)"
con_4_5	High-speed rail is not a public good.	High-speed rail is not a public good. Samuel Staley. "The Pragmatic Case Against High-Speed Rail." Reason Foundation. June 22nd, 2009: "the fact the biggest reason high-speed rail won't work in the U.S. is that it doesn't make sense as a project funded from general tax revenues. High-speed rail is not a public good and it's not mass transit. It is corridor transit. At best, it's a niche market serving a highly specialized, relatively wealthy, and narrow customer base (high-income business travelers with expense accounts and tourists)."
con_4_6	High-speed transportation is really a private good.	High-speed transportation is really a private good. Samuel Staley. "The Pragmatic Case Against High-Speed Rail." Reason Foundation. June 22, 2009: "The problem, of course, is that high-speed rail in the U.S. is promoted as an end in itself, with unrealistically high expectations, and based on the erroneous idea that somehow this narrowly targeted niche transportation "choice" is a public good. It is not. It's a private good masquarading as a public good."
con_4_7	High-speed trains: costly govt project in search of need	 High-speed trains: costly govt project in search of need Jack Mobley. "A case against high-speed rail." Merced Sun Star. December 11th, 2010: "The project is doomed to be another expensive government project in search of a need. If it were a viable option, the railroad companies would still be offering passenger service. High-speed rail will be an albatross around the financial neck of California for generations and the promise of 600,000 jobs being created is a pipe dream. We should stop this effort now before billions of dollars are spent constructing a means of transportation relatively few will ride and which will require many more billions of dollars in ongoing annual subsidies by the state of California."
headline_5	Safety: Is high-speed rail safe?
pro_5_1	High-speed rail safer than other forms of travel.	High-speed rail safer than other forms of travel. From the point of view of required traffic control systems and infrastructure, high-speed rail has the added advantage of being much simpler to control due to its predictable course, even at very high passenger loads; this issue is becoming more relevant as air traffic reaches its safe limit in busy airspaces over London, New York, and other large centers. However, it must be noted that high speed rail systems reduce (but do not eliminate[56][57]) the possibility of collisions with automobiles or people, while lower speed rail systems used by high speed trains may have level crossings.
pro_5_2	High-speed rail saves lives from car accidents.	High-speed rail saves lives from car accidents. 43,000 Americans die each year in car accidents.
con_5_1	High-speed rail has greater risk of catastrophic accident.	High-speed rail has greater risk of catastrophic accident. High speed rail, due to the extremely high speeds, is much more likely to result in a catastrophic accident in the event of some mistake and derailment. While fairly rare, the magnitude of the potential accident is a major risk surrounding high-speed rail. And, these risks don't simply apply to the passengers; they also apply to the companies building the rail systems, which may incur major legal liabilities and share-price setbacks from a major accident.
con_5_2	High-speed rail gives criminals access to areas	 High-speed rail gives criminals access to areas 
headline_6	Community: Does high-speed rail foster a sense of community?
pro_6_1	Unlike automobiles, rail fosters a sense of community.	Unlike automobiles, rail fosters a sense of community. Trains bring people together to share in a trip. When entering a train station, one feels a sense of belonging to a community and a larger society. Cars, on the other hand, separate people and keep them isolated from one another, so that there is far less of a sense of belonging. Trains enable chance interactions with other people that can lead to friendships or even romances. They force people to deal with each other, increasing the capacity of individuals to cope with social situations and build their communities. 
con_6_1	Cars/freeways better suited to independent spirit.	Cars/freeways better suited to independent spirit. Jack Mobley. "A case against high-speed rail." Merced Sun Star. December 11th, 2010: "Overall, in America we have much better road networks than most other countries and have developed over the years an independent spirit more suited to the car than the train.The average American's love of personal liberty is reflected in our use of automobiles. In the future we may drive smaller, more fuel-efficient cars, but I do not believe the average American will give up their car for mass transit."
