title	Was the War in Iraq worth it?
question	Was the War in Iraq worth fighting?
headline_1	Without Saddam: Is the world a safer place without Saddam Hussein?
pro_1_1	The world is a better place without Saddam Hussein	 The world is a better place without Saddam Hussein Donald Rumsfeld said to NPR's Steve Inskeep in a February 2011 interview: "And a vicious, truly vicious regime that was shooting at our aircraft every day, more than 2,000 times when we were patrolling the northern and southern no-fly zones for the United Nations, that regime is gone, and the region is safer, our country is safer, and the world's a better place without Saddam Hussein."[1]
pro_1_2	War in Iraq kept Saddam from acquiring nuclear weapons.	War in Iraq kept Saddam from acquiring nuclear weapons. John Bolton, U.N. ambassador under Bush, has argued that deposing Saddam's regime was "unquestionably correct" because it kept him from acquiring nuclear weapons. This, he believes, Saddam surely would have done given that the sanctions effort against him was weakening. "Achieving that objective was materially in the interests of the United States, and the world is a better place," he said. 
pro_1_3	If not a threat then, Iraq would have become one	 If not a threat then, Iraq would have become one Saddam Hussein was a tyrant with a willingness to use WMD on his own people and in wars with other countries. Although he apparently had discontinued his active WMD program by 2003, he could have easily reconstituted this program, particularly with the sanctions regime against him crumbling. And, considering the regional threats posed by Iran and Syria and their active WMD programs, he probably would have. He was an inevitable threat, even if temporarily subdued in 2003.
con_1_1	Deposing Saddam was not worth immense costs of war.	Deposing Saddam was not worth immense costs of war. Francis Fukuyama. "Iraq May Be Stable, But the War Was a Mistake" Wall Street Journal. August 15th, 2008: "While everyone is better off without Saddam Hussein around, the cost was hugely disproportionate. If you don't believe this, ask yourself whether Congress would ever have voted to authorize the war in 2002 if it knew there was no WMD, or that there would be trillion-dollar budget outlays, or that there would be 30,000 dead and wounded after five years of bitter struggle."
con_1_2	War in Iraq replaced one dictator with hundreds.	War in Iraq replaced one dictator with hundreds. Qasim Sabti, an Iraqi painter, said to USA Today in 2010: "We had one dictator. Now we have hundreds of dictators."[2]
con_1_3	Saddam Hussein was a much smaller threat than believed.	Saddam Hussein was a much smaller threat than believed. Saddam Hussein was not the threat that many war hawks have made him out to be. Without WMD, he posed no imminent threat to the United States or neighboring countries. And, having fully demonstrated the superiority of the US military in the Gulf War, he would not have attempted a new conventional war.
con_1_4	Many dictators are dangerous, but that doesn't justify war.	Many dictators are dangerous, but that doesn't justify war. Dictatorships in Iran, North Korea, Libya and many other countries pose a potential security risks to other countries. But, this alone does not justify going to war with them, just as the moderate risks from Saddam Hussein did not justify the War in Iraq.
headline_2	Rogue regimes: Has war helped send a message to rogue regimes?
pro_2_1	War in Iraq sent deterrent message to rogue regimes.	War in Iraq sent deterrent message to rogue regimes. Tony Blair wrote in his 2010 memoirs: "After 11 September, the thinking was this: if these terrorist groups could acquire WMD capability, would they use it? On the evidence of 11 September, yes. So how do we shut the trade down? How do we send a sufficiently clear and vivid signal to nations that are developing, or might develop, such capability to desist? How do we make it indisputable that continued defiance of the will of the international community will no longer be tolerated?"[3]
pro_2_2	Show of strength in Iraq helped denuclearize Libya	 Show of strength in Iraq helped denuclearize Libya Donald Rumsfeld said in an interview with Steve Inskeep on February 14th, 2011: "Gaddafi was working on a nuclear capability. When he saw what happened to Saddam Hussein, he decided he would forgo that, admit that he was doing that, allow inspectors in. And that's one of the non-intuitive events that occurred that was positive."[4] 
con_2_1	War in Iraq has benefited Iran in region	 War in Iraq has benefited Iran in region Francis Fukuyama. "Iraq May Be Stable, But the War Was a Mistake" Wall Street Journal. August 15th, 2008: "Iran has emerged as the dominant regional power in the Persian Gulf once the U.S. removed its major rival from the scene and put its Shiite clients into power in Baghdad."
con_2_2	Iraq War caused rogue regimes to accelerate nuclear programs.	Iraq War caused rogue regimes to accelerate nuclear programs. Francis Fukuyama. "Iraq May Be Stable, But the War Was a Mistake" Wall Street Journal. August 15th, 2008: "By invading Iraq in the manner it did, the U.S. exacerbated all of the threats it faced prior to 2003. [...] North Korea and Iran accelerated their development of nuclear weapons."
con_2_3	War in Iraq has achieved no core US objectives.	War in Iraq has achieved no core US objectives. Cindy Sheehan, an anti-war activist: "I don't think there's been any measurable thing that we could cite that this occupation of Iraq has made better. We achieved exactly nothing."[5]
headline_3	War on Terror: Did the War in Iraq help the War on Terror?
pro_3_1	War in Iraq became a battle front in War on Terror.	War in Iraq became a battle front in War on Terror. The War in Iraq quickly became a battle front in the War on Terror, even if it originally was not intended to be one. It drew Al Qaeda terrorists in from the surrounding region, and created an opportunity for the US to kill or capture them. In addition, the intelligence gathered through interrogations of captured terrorists in Iraq proved valuable in the broader regional and global War on Terror.
pro_3_2	War in Iraq teaches how to fight wars of 21st century.	War in Iraq teaches how to fight wars of 21st century. Richard Miniter. "Was the Iraq War Worth It?" Hudson New York. September 2, 2010: "The military also learned some big things, such as how to fight urban wars and small wars -- the two most likely forms of conflict that can be expected over in the 21st century. Thanks to Iraq, a Pentagon, mired in the thinking of World War II tactics, has learned how to fight on future battlefields. The surge in Iraq, and the use of light and nimble forces in Somalia, are among the benefits of our military leaders' Iraq education."
pro_3_3	Victory better than letting terrorists win in Iraq.	Victory better than letting terrorists win in Iraq. President Bush said in 2008: "No one would argue that this war has not come at a high cost in lives and treasure, but those costs are necessary when we consider the cost of a strategic victory for our enemies in Iraq."[6]
pro_3_4	Drop in terrorism in Iraq demonstrates successes in War on Terror.	Drop in terrorism in Iraq demonstrates successes in War on Terror. Dramatic drops in terrorist attacks and civilian and troop casualties in 2009, 2010, and 2011 demonstrate successes in War on Terror in Iraq and the region. This is particularly true because many terrorist leaders claimed that Iraq was the battle field in their larger war against the West. If that is so, then they have clearly lost.
con_3_1	The War in Iraq distracted from the War on Terror.	The War in Iraq distracted from the War on Terror. Malou Innocent. "The Iraq war: still a massive mistake." Christian Science Monitor. April 5th, 2010: "A fourth consequence of the war in Iraq – and one that should determine whether it is deemed a “success” – is that it did little to keep America safe from Al Qaeda, the perpetrators of 9/11. In this respect, what makes “Bush’s war” in Iraq arguably one of the biggest strategic blunders in US history is not just the litany of failures it caused but the opportunities America lost. The disaster in Iraq diverted badly needed intelligence assets, public attention, and congressional oversight from the forgotten war in Afghanistan."
con_3_2	War in Iraq has helped terrorist recruitment	 War in Iraq has helped terrorist recruitment Francis Fukuyama. "Iraq May Be Stable, But the War Was a Mistake" Wall Street Journal. August 15th, 2008: "By invading Iraq in the manner it did, the U.S. exacerbated all of the threats it faced prior to 2003. Recruitment into terrorist cells shot up all over the world."
con_3_3	War in Iraq was not mainly against terrorists.	War in Iraq was not mainly against terrorists. War in Iraq was mainly against "insurgents" that were fighting a "Western occupation". It was also focused around policing the near civil war between Shiites and Sunnis. Al Qaeda terrorists were a very small element next to these bigger "fronts", which were sparked by the war itself. 
con_3_4	Solving problems created by war does not justify war.	Solving problems created by war does not justify war. War in Iraq might have become, on a very small level, a front in the War on Terror, but this was as much a result of the act of waging such an unjust war and "occupation" as anything else - many locals were incited to fight the occupation and were subsequently labelled "terrorists." Fighting the terrorism that resulted from the war is clearly not a justification for waging the war in the first place; it nets no benefits.
headline_4	Lives lost: Was war worth the lives lost?
pro_4_1	Saddam Hussein caused a comparable death toll to War in Iraq	 Saddam Hussein caused a comparable death toll to War in Iraq Richard Miniter. "Was the Iraq War Worth It?" Hudson New York. September 2, 2010: "Finally, let us remember that Saddam Hussein's Iraq was not a very safe place. There were bombing and shootings at least on par with 2010 levels, if not higher. No official statistics were kept, and the bombings were not generally reported on state-run media; but anecdotal and other reports show a sustained level of violence in the Saddam years. People tend to imagine dictatorships as solid and stable things; instead, dictatorships are a relentless civil war by the rulers against the majority. A continuing civil war can turn hot, and, in Saddam's era, often did."
pro_4_2	Number of US troops lost in Iraq is relatively small	 Number of US troops lost in Iraq is relatively small Richard Miniter. "Was the Iraq War Worth It?" Hudson New York. September 2, 2010: "What about the toll taken on the U.S. military? [...] While every soldier's life is precious, it is astonishing how relatively few Americans were called upon to make the ultimate sacrifice in the Iraq war. Total combat deaths for U.S. forces are 3,491 over eight years. More died in a single day of combat at Antietam (Sharpsburg, Maryland) or on the Normandy landings. [...] If you average the death toll of 57,000 over the 14 years of the Vietnam War, you get 4,071: one year of the Vietnam War was more deadly than all eight years of the Iraq war combined. [...] Clearly, the military has learned a lot about combat medicine, body armor, small-unit tactics and hundreds of other advances that save lives, both military and civilian."
pro_4_3	War in Iraq was worth the lives lost	 War in Iraq was worth the lives lost In a 2009 interview between Jim Lehrer and Vice President Dick Cheney: "Q: But Mr. Vice President, getting from there to here, 4,500 Americans have died, at least 100,000 Iraqis have died. Has it been worth that? CHENEY: I think so. Q: Why? CHENEY: Because I believed at the time what Saddam Hussein represented was, especially in the aftermath of 9/11, was a terror-sponsoring state so designated by the State Department. … He had produced and used weapons of mass destruction, chemical and biological agents. He’d had a nuclear program in the past. … And he did have a relationship with al Qaeda. [...] And so I think given the track record of Saddam Hussein, I think we did exactly the right thing. I think the country is better off for it today."
con_4_1	War in Iraq resulted in too many dead or wounded soldiers.	War in Iraq resulted in too many dead or wounded soldiers. Jim Wallis. "The War in Iraq: At What Cost?" Sojourners. September 1, 2010: "The human cost of the Iraq War is literally breathtaking. I went to a website last night that has documented the number and published the pictures of those who died, 4,400 so far.  I couldn’t stop looking at their pictures … so young … so many husbands and wives, fathers, mothers, and those still almost children themselves. I kept thinking about how much they will be so sorely missed by those who loved and needed them. Then I listened to so many stories of the 35,000 wounded, many who lost their arms and legs, their strong young bodies, their long-term abilities, or their emotional and mental health. I winced when I heard there are about 18 suicides each day among returning veterans."
con_4_2	War not worth roughly 100,000 Iraqi civilians killed.	War not worth roughly 100,000 Iraqi civilians killed. IraqBodyCount.org records that between 98 and 108 thousand Iraqi civilians have been killed in the War in Iraq between 2003 and 2011. Such a death toll is catastrophic, outrageous, and scandalous. Almost every person in Iraq - a country of 31 million - knows somebody that has been killed. No war of choice is worth this cost, especially when the benefits were completely speculative. And even in the worst case scenarios with Saddam Hussein staying in power, death tolls approaching this kind of figure are hard to imagine. 
con_4_3	War in Iraq displaced millions, creating regional refugees.	War in Iraq displaced millions, creating regional refugees. Malou Innocent. "The Iraq war: still a massive mistake." Christian Science Monitor. April 5th, 2010: "More than 2 million displaced Iraqi Sunnis, who fled into neighboring Jordan and Syria, are adding instability to an already politically precarious region of the world."
con_4_4	Congress would have voted against Iraq War knowing costs now.	Congress would have voted against Iraq War knowing costs now. Francis Fukuyama. "Iraq May Be Stable, But the War Was a Mistake" Wall Street Journal. August 15th, 2008: "ask yourself whether Congress would ever have voted to authorize the war in 2002 if it knew there was no WMD, or that there would be trillion-dollar budget outlays, or that there would be 30,000 dead and wounded after five years of bitter struggle."
headline_5	Iraqis: Are Iraqis better off as a result of war?
pro_5_1	The war liberated millions of Iraqis from Tyranny.	The war liberated millions of Iraqis from Tyranny. Donald Rumsfeld said in an interview with NPR's Steve Inskeep that the war was worth it because "Millions of Iraqi people, millions of Afghan people have been liberated."[7]
pro_5_2	War has given Iraqis a young democracy to grow.	War has given Iraqis a young democracy to grow. Jim Michaels. "Iraq seven years later: Was the war worth it?" USA Today. August 27th, 2010: "Democracy is alive in Iraq. Under Saddam Hussein, Khalaf and others may have been visited by the secret police for their remarks and then never seen again. Today, a police chief is berated, and no one fears for their lives."
pro_5_3	Iraq War offered Iraqi people hope for new future.	Iraq War offered Iraqi people hope for new future. Retired Army lieutenant general James Dubik of the Institute for the Study of War said in 2010: "The war has brought the Iraqi nation a hope for the future that didn't exist under Saddam's rule. That's a huge thing."[8]
pro_5_4	Iraq's democratic government is working reasonably well	 Iraq's democratic government is working reasonably well 
pro_5_5	Iraqis are better off economically as a result of the war	 Iraqis are better off economically as a result of the war 
con_5_1	War worth it only if Iraq beats odds and becomes liberal democracy.	War worth it only if Iraq beats odds and becomes liberal democracy. Howard Dean said in 2010 to USA Today: "If Iraq should, against the odds, turn into a liberal democracy, then we would say it was worth it. The problem is, the odds are against it."[9]
con_5_2	Progress in Iraq does not mean war was worth it.	Progress in Iraq does not mean war was worth it. Francis Fukuyama. "Iraq May Be Stable, But the War Was a Mistake" Wall Street Journal. August 15th, 2008: "Though Iraq remains a very troubled country, virtually all of the trend lines -- Iraqi and U.S. casualties, government provision of basic services, and the ability of Iraqi forces to provide order -- have been moving in a positive direction for the past year. What I absolutely [do] not concede, however, was the fact that this change meant that the war itself was worth it. By invading Iraq in the manner it did, the U.S. exacerbated all of the threats it faced prior to 2003. Recruitment into terrorist cells shot up all over the world. North Korea and Iran accelerated their development of nuclear weapons."
headline_6	Reputation: Did the war improve or damage US reputation/credibility?
pro_6_1	War in Iraq adds to US geopolitical and military credibility.	War in Iraq adds to US geopolitical and military credibility. Richard Miniter. "Was the Iraq War Worth It?" Hudson New York. September 2, 2010: "the war enhanced American credibility. At the end of any diplomatic process, there might be the implied threat of military force. Future presidents will benefit, in their diplomatic efforts, from the vivid memory of American forces confronting the fourth-largest army in the world and defeating its major units in a matter of weeks. The defeat of the insurgency, which was far more difficult, is also instructive to the leaders of other lands. If the world knows that you are not a paper tiger, you do not often have to roar."
pro_6_2	War in Iraq sent message about WMD, sponsoring terror, etc.	War in Iraq sent message about WMD, sponsoring terror, etc. Tony Blair wrote in his 2010 memoirs: "After 11 September, the thinking was this: if these terrorist groups could acquire WMD capability, would they use it? On the evidence of 11 September, yes. So how do we shut the trade down? How do we send a sufficiently clear and vivid signal to nations that are developing, or might develop, such capability to desist? How do we make it indisputable that continued defiance of the will of the international community will no longer be tolerated?"[10]
pro_6_3	Iraq War consistent with better to be feared than loved.	Iraq War consistent with "better to be feared than loved." While it may be true that the War in Iraq irritated many, it is probably better to be feared than loved, as Machiavelli argued.
con_6_1	Iraq War undermines US legitimacy on international law	 Iraq War undermines US legitimacy on international law Francis Fukuyama. "Iraq May Be Stable, But the War Was a Mistake" Wall Street Journal. August 15th, 2008: "There are deeper, intangible costs. The Bush administration this week rebuked Russia for its disproportionate military intervention in Georgia; many rightly suspect Moscow's real goal is regime change of the pro-Western, democratic government in Tbilisi. But who set the most recent precedent for a big power intervening to change a regime it didn't like, without the sanction of the U.N. Security Council or any other legitimating international body? Of course, there is no moral equivalence between Saddam Hussein's Iraq and Mikheil Saakashvili's Georgia. But the U.S. is scarcely in a position today to rally opposition to Russia on the basis of international law and norms constraining the strong from using force against the weak."
con_6_2	Iraq War worsened US reputation in the Muslim world.	Iraq War worsened US reputation in the Muslim world. Malou Innocent. "The Iraq war: still a massive mistake." Christian Science Monitor. April 5th, 2010: "A third side effect of the war waged purportedly in democracy’s name is that it came at the expense of America’s already frayed reputation in the Muslim world. Far from being seen as a benevolent liberator, the United States was perceived as a blundering behemoth – and an abusive, hypocritical one to boot."
