title	Ban on mountaintop removal coal mining
question	
headline_1	Environment: Is mountaintop removal coal mining environmentally damaging?
pro_1_1	Mountaintop removal involves permanent deforestation	 Mountaintop removal involves permanent deforestation The forest on a mountaintop is removed permanently in mountaintop removal coal mine. It cannot recover. This differs significantly from closed mines where a forest above can thrive.
pro_1_2	Mined mountaintops are hardly ever reclaimed/reforested	 Mined mountaintops are hardly ever reclaimed/reforested Mountain Justice: "Coal companies are supposed to reclaim land, but all too often mine sites are left stripped and bare. Even where attempts to replant vegetation have been made, the mountain is never again returned to its healthy state."
pro_1_3	Trees have difficulty gaining root in compacted backfill.	Trees have difficulty gaining root in compacted backfill. Mountaintop removal takes off the ordinary topsoil upon which trees can gain root. What remains is a compacted rocky surface that is not usually suitable for reforestation within any reasonable period of time.
pro_1_4	Mountaintop removal often leaves no ecosystem b/w mines	 Mountaintop removal often leaves no ecosystem b/w mines 
pro_1_5	Trees cut for mountaintop mining are often not used.	Trees cut for mountaintop mining are often not used. I love mountains.org: "CLEARING - Before mining can begin, all topsoil and vegetation must be removed. Because coal companies frequently are responding to short-term fluctuations in the price of coal, these trees are often not even used comercially in the rush to get the coal, but instead are burned or sometimes illegally dumped into valley fills."
pro_1_6	Mountaintop removal threatens many endangered species.	Mountaintop removal threatens many endangered species. Extensive tracts of deciduous forests destroyed by mountaintop mining support several endangered species and some of the highest biodiversity in North America.
pro_1_7	Transport trucks in mountaintop removal damage environment.	Transport trucks in mountaintop removal damage environment. The huge trucks being driven in and out of coal mine sites are loud, disruptive, and polluting of the environment.
pro_1_8	Burning coal emits carbon dioxide and harms climate.	Burning coal emits carbon dioxide and harms climate. Burning CO2 emits more carbon dioxide into the atmosphere than any other energy source. It is, therefore, a major contributor to climate change.
con_1_1	Mountaintop removal more accurately called mountaintop development.	Mountaintop removal more accurately called mountaintop development. Taylor Kuykendall. "What's In a name? 'Mountaintop Removal' vs. 'Mountaintop Development'" Friends of Coal. December 27th, 2010: "coal industry executives say the term 'mountaintop development' would paint a more accurate picture of the practice. 'In my mind, mountaintop ‘removal’ implies the site is mined and then left barren, lifeless and flattened. This couldn’t be further from the truth,' said Chris Hamilton of the West Virginia Coal Association. [...] [Hamilton says] Restoring the land occurs in about 90 percent to 95 percent of former surface mines [...] 'We rebuild the mountain peak, resculpting it to approximately as close as possible to the original premining topography of the land, then we reseed it with grasses and trees,' Hamilton said. 'We also rebuild the drainage channels, putting in sediment and erosion-control structures to prevent potential downstream impacts.'"
con_1_2	Mountaintop coal companies restore developed area.	Mountaintop coal companies restore developed area. Chris Hamilton of the West Virginia Coal Association said in 2010: "Restoring the land occurs in about 90 percent to 95 percent of former surface mines. We rebuild the mountain peak, resculpting it to approximately as close as possible to the original premining topography of the land, then we reseed it with grasses and trees. We also rebuild the drainage channels, putting in sediment and erosion-control structures to prevent potential downstream impacts.”[1]
con_1_3	Permits require miners to restore or adapt mines.	Permits require miners to restore or adapt mines. Mining permits require companies to restore the mines to their approximate original contour or to configure the land for an 'alternate use.' They have to get an exemption of some kind in order to get around this. And while exemptions are offered, at the least the default requirement is restoration.
con_1_4	Small percentage of coal mines are open ones.	Small percentage of coal mines are open ones. Chris Hamilton of the West Virginia Coal Association said iu 2010: “I love mountains as well. And I would point out that only 1 percent of the surface area of our state has been touched by surface mining. Some opponents of coal are prone to exaggeration..."[2]
headline_2	Valley fills: Are valley fills a major risk?
pro_2_1	Mountaintop removal waste fills/destroys streams	 Mountaintop removal waste fills/destroys streams John McQuaid. "Mountaintop Mining Legacy: Destroying Appalachian Streams." Yale Environment 360. July 20th, 2009: "Of all the environmental problems caused by mountaintop projects — decapitated peaks, deforestation, the significant carbon footprint — scientists have found that valley fills do the most damage because they destroy headwater streams and surrounding forests, which are crucial to the workings of mountain ecosystems."
pro_2_2	Coal slurry left over from mountaintop removal is toxic	 Coal slurry left over from mountaintop removal is toxic I love mountains.org: "PROCESSING — The coal is washed and treated before it is loaded on trains. The excess water left over from this process is called coal slurry or sludge and is stored in open coal impoundments. Coal sludge is a mix of water, coal dust, clay and toxic chemicals such as arsenic mercury, lead, copper, and chromium. Impoundments are held in place by mining debris, making them very unstable."
pro_2_3	Valley fills often cause the flooding of communities.	Valley fills often cause the flooding of communities. As valley fills obstruct the natural flow of water, redirect water in new directions, or create dams that can suddenly burst, they often result in the flooding of local communities as is often experienced in places like West Virginia.
pro_2_4	MTR increases selenium levels in rivers and deforms fish	 MTR increases selenium levels in rivers and deforms fish 
con_2_1	Mountaintop removal does not inherently involve valley filling.	Mountaintop removal does not inherently involve valley filling. "Mongiardo leads defense of mountaintop removal." Kentukians for the Commonwealth. March 26th, 2009 "A distinction we try to make clear: a valley fill permit is not the same as a permit allowing the company to mine using mountaintop removal or any other mining method. Those permits are usually issued by the state.  Valley fill, or "404" permits (referring to the section in the Clean Water Act), are issued by the Corps of Engineers. The EPA has overall responsibility for enforcement of the CWA, including some oversight authority over the Corps' actions." In other words, mountaintop removal does not inherently involve valley fills. Valley fills can be banned or avoided by coal companies without abandoning the practice of mountain top removal. 
headline_3	Economics: Is mountaintop mining economical?
pro_3_1	Mountaintop mines are almost never developed afterwords.	Mountaintop mines are almost never developed afterwords. Vivian Stockman, an organizer for the Ohio Valley Environmental Coalition, told West Virginia Public Broadcasting that a flyover of the southern West Virginia coalfields suggests little development on former surface mine sites. 'If they’re hoping to, you know, create shopping malls on some of these, I don’t know where they’re going to get all the shoppers. All the communities around these areas have been driven away.”[3] :[4]: "Researchers from the Natural Resources Defense Council found that about 1.2 million acres and about 500 mountains were flattened by surface mining in central Appalachia. An aerial imagery analysis by NRDC found that about 90 percent of mountaintop removal sites were not converted to economic uses. Only about 4 percent of West Virginia and Kentucky mountaintops had been redeveloped, NRDC found. 'We watch our Appalachian communities being destroyed every day with the false promise of reclamation,' Lorelei Scarbro, with Coal River Mountain Watch, told NRDC. 'We, the citizens living at ground zero, are losing our way of life and our history with every mountain they take. I am heartbroken to think what my grandchildren will have left when they grow up if we don’t stop this rogue mining.'"
pro_3_2	Myth that West Virginia doesn't have enough flat land.	Myth that West Virginia doesn't have enough flat land. Vivian Stockman, an organizer for the Ohio Valley Environmental Coalition said that the notion that West Virginia needs more flat land is a myth. "Back in 2002 we had some volunteers create some maps for us. There were just massive amounts of land that are not, in any way, shape or form, developed."[5]
con_3_1	Mountain mining creates economic opportunities on flattened land	 Mountain mining creates economic opportunities on flattened land "Few sites redeveloped after mining." The Mercury. January 3th, 2011: "HINDMAN, Ky. — A short drive up a side road through dense Appalachian forest ends at a vast, flat clearing where a mountaintop used to be. The peak that stood for an eon is gone, replaced by a giant recreation area that was built after a coal company scraped away thousands of tons of earth, lowering the mountain by 200 feet. Coal industry supporters say the Knott County Sportsplex in eastern Kentucky is one of many examples of economic opportunity created by strip mining techniques that include the often-vilified method known as mountaintop removal." 
con_3_2	Mountaintop removal often only way to develop land	 Mountaintop removal often only way to develop land West Virginia’s natural contours, as an example, are not necessarily the best for land development. The cost of reshaping that land for development makes many potential sites cost-prohibitive. Mountaintop removal is often the only economical way of doing this.
con_3_3	Mountain mines offer only certain types of development	 Mountain mines offer only certain types of development 
con_3_4	Mountaintop mining can access narrow seems of coal.	Mountaintop mining can access narrow seems of coal. Proponents argue that in certain geologic areas, MTR and similar forms of surface mining allow the only access to thin seams of coal that traditional underground mining would not be able to mine. 
con_3_5	MTR often most cost-effective means of coal extraction.	MTR often most cost-effective means of coal extraction. Depending on how deep or shallow and how narrowly coal is buried in a mountain, mountaintop removal is often the most economical means of extraction. Enabling such efficient extraction is important to keeping coal and electricity prices low, enabling the modern way of life.
headline_4	Jobs: Does mountaintop removal cost/create jobs?
pro_4_1	Explosives/machines in mountaintop removal replace jobs	 Explosives/machines in mountaintop removal replace jobs Ashley Judd. "Stop mountain top removal coal mining." The Hill. July 14th, 2010: "Coal companies say Appalachia needs mining for jobs. Again, false. Coal mining jobs in Appalachia have decreased by 60 percent as MTR is highly mechanized. Explosives, machines such as 20 story draglines and bulldozers have replaced more than 100,000 jobs. Those working MTR jobs have little to no social protections and often work in a climate of bullying and fear. Many sites lack regulation, oversight and enforcement, as recent tragedies make sadly clear. The specious argument that Appalachia must choose between jobs and people, jobs and ancient mountains, honoring our coal mining past and having a strong future, must be retired."
pro_4_2	Mountaintop mining is generally not a big job-creator.	Mountaintop mining is generally not a big job-creator. Mountain Justice: "Traditional mining communities disappear as jobs diminish and residents are driven away by dust, blasting and increased flooding and dangers from overloaded coal trucks careening down small, windy mountain roads. Mining companies buy many of the homes and tear them down. Dynamite is cheaper than people, so mountaintop removal mining does not create many new jobs."
con_4_1	Holding up mountaintop removal mining costs jobs.	Holding up mountaintop removal mining costs jobs. National Mining Association stated in 2009 in response to the Obama administration's EPA action holding up permits for mountaintop removal and valley fills: "This action, which applies to all mining-related 404 permits in the region, puts thousands of mining jobs and coal production in Appalachia at risk. While on the one hand the administration is spending billions in stimulus jobs, it is taking away the highest paying jobs in the region by delaying needed permit approvals. This is not good for jobs or for energy security."[6]
con_4_2	Mountaintop coal mining is critical to some regions	 Mountaintop coal mining is critical to some regions Mountaintop removal provided 30% of the coal mined in West Virginia in 2006. For this reason, it has become an important part of West Virginia's economy and the vibrancy of its communities.  
headline_5	Communities: Does mountaintop removal harm communities?
pro_5_1	Mountaintop removal teaches children wrong lessons on environment.	Mountaintop removal teaches children wrong lessons on environment. Ashley Judd. "Stop mountain top removal coal mining." The Hill. July 14th, 2010: "The surrounding wildlife is decimated. Groundwater supplies are contaminated. Children color water black or orange; often, they do not know it is supposed to run clear."
pro_5_2	Mountaintop removal destroys recreational mountains.	Mountaintop removal destroys recreational mountains.  Anita Miller, a resident of Laurel Branch Valley in West Virginia where Mountain Top removal has taken place, said in July of 2009: "There used to be pine trees, and it was a very pretty shaded area. There was a nice trail that went up the hollow and I used to take my granddaughter up there and we’d go ginsenging [harvesting ginseng roots, an Appalachian custom] on up the hill.[...] Can’t we go someplace else? There’s no hills to climb there."[7]
pro_5_3	MTR violates principle that mountains should have tops.	MTR violates principle that mountains should have tops. Mountains naturally have tops. There is a reason for this. Removing them dramatically violates and damages nature's beauty.
pro_5_4	Mountaintop removal blasts dust into air, harming local communities.	Mountaintop removal blasts dust into air, harming local communities. Blasting mountaintops, driving trucks on dusty roads, and scraping coal out of open mines all releases dust into the air that negatively impacts local communities in terms of their air quality and health.
pro_5_5	Explosives used in mountaintop removal are dangerous/loud/etc.	Explosives used in mountaintop removal are dangerous/loud/etc. I love mountains.org: "BLASTING — Many Appalachian coal seams lie deep below the surface of the mountains. Accessing these seams through surface mining can require the removal of 500-800 feet or more of elevation. Blowing up this much mountain is accomplished by using millions of pounds of explosives." This is dangerous to workers, annoying to locals, and potentially harmful or disruptive to local wildlife.
con_5_1	Mountaintop mining helps communities hampered by lack of flat space.	Mountaintop mining helps communities hampered by lack of flat space. Joe Lucas, vice president of communications for the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity (ACCCE), told the Guardian that dynamiting the tops off of mountains helped communities that were "hampered because of a lack of flat space."[8]: "I can take you to places in eastern Kentucky where community services were hampered because of a lack of flat space — to build factories, to build hospitals, even to build schools. In many places, mountain-top mining, if done responsibly, allows for land to be developed for community space."
con_5_2	MTR land better supports game animals.	MTR land better supports game animals. The new growth on reclaimed mountaintop mined areas is better suited to support populations of game animals.
con_5_3	Mountaintop coal mining is critical to some regions.	Mountaintop coal mining is critical to some regions. Mountaintop removal provided 30% of the coal mined in West Virginia in 2006. For this reason, it has become an important part of West Virginia's economy and the vibrancy of its communities.  
headline_6	Health: Is mountaintop removal unhealthy?
pro_6_1	Mountaintop removal harms local drinking water.	Mountaintop removal harms local drinking water. Toxins, coal slurry, and chemicals used in the cleaning of coal often find their way downstream from MTR sites and into well water consumed by a large percentage of rural families.
pro_6_2	Mountaintop removal very costly in premature mortality.	Mountaintop removal very costly in premature mortality. Ashley Judd. "Stop mountain top removal coal mining." The Hill. July 14th, 2010: "The cost of premature mortality related to coal mining in Eastern Kentucky is $3.1 billion to $6.2 billion annually. Kentucky’s annual net loss related to coal mining is more than $100 million. This must stop."
pro_6_3	MTR has general health consequences.	MTR has general health consequences. Published studies also show a high potential for human health impacts. These may result from contact with streams or exposure to airborne toxins and dust. Adult hospitalization for chronic pulmonary disorders and hypertension are elevated as a result of county-level coal production. Rates of mortality, lung cancer, as well as chronic heart, lung and kidney disease are also increased.
