title	Compulsory voting
question	Is mandatory voting a good idea?
headline_1	Democracy: Does mandatory voting enhance democracy?
pro_1_1	Voting is not only a right, but a responsibility.	Voting is not only a right, but a responsibility. The whole point of freedom is that everyone has a say and has a responsibility to voice their opinion, otherwise the system doesn't work. non-compulsory voting encourages entire classes of people to not bother with voting, since it is demanding, having to stand in long queues all day. People should exercise their right and responsibility to vote. 
pro_1_2	50% turnout not democracy; mandatory voting necessary.	50% turnout not democracy; mandatory voting necessary. Keith Olbermann. "Make voting mandatory voting necessary." Salon. November 5, 2002: "two modest proposals to get head and hair flying. First: Mandatory voting. You heard me. A democracy where half of the citizens sit back and say, 'no, thanks,' isn't a democracy at all -- just a really large oligarchy. If we have not already reached it, we are nearing, inevitably, the point at which everyone who votes has a personal stake in the outcome. As the percentage of lever-pullers continues to decline, it's going to eventually be just the candidates' friends, families and people from their secret second lives who even bother to show up. You know -- like park league softball."
pro_1_3	Mandatory voting broadens representation and legitimacy.	Mandatory voting broadens representation and legitimacy. Such a system guarantees that the government represents a majority of the population, not only a minority of individuals who vote. This helps ensure that governments do not neglect sections of society that are less active politically, and victorious political leaders of compulsory systems may potentially claim greater political legitimacy than those of non-compulsory systems with lower voter turnout.
pro_1_4	Mandatory voting would reduce polarization.	Mandatory voting would reduce polarization. William Galston, senior fellow in governance studies at the Brookings Institution. "Mandatory voting would loosen partisan gridlock." US News and World Report. July 8th, 2010: "My prediction, based on the difference between voters and nonvoters in the United States today, is that it would reduce political polarization."
pro_1_5	Mandatory voting decreases need for big dollars in campaigns.	Mandatory voting decreases need for big dollars in campaigns. Because mandatory voting means that no large campaign funds are needed to goad voters to the polls, the role of money in politics will decrease.
pro_1_6	Mandatory voting would compel broader campaign messaging.	Mandatory voting would compel broader campaign messaging. William Galston, senior fellow in governance studies at the Brookings Institution. "Mandatory voting would loosen partisan gridlock." US News and World Report. July 8th, 2010: "Campaigns wouldn't have to spend nearly as much time on voter mobilization, nor would they be able to target their message simply to the most passionate partisan members of the electorate. They'd have to craft broader and more inclusive messages. That would be all to the good."
pro_1_7	Compulsory voting reduces power of lobbying groups.	Compulsory voting reduces power of lobbying groups. A benefit of compulsory voting is that it makes it more difficult for special interest groups to vote themselves into power. Under a non-compulsory voting system, if fewer people vote then it is easier for smaller sectional interests and lobby groups to control the outcome of the political process. The outcome of the election reflects less the will of the people (Who do I want to lead the country?) but instead reflects who was logistically more organized and more able to convince people to take time out of their day to cast a vote (Do I even want to vote today?).
pro_1_8	Compulsory voting decreases risk of political instability.	Compulsory voting decreases risk of political instability. High levels of participation decreases the risk of political instability created by crises or dangerous but charismatic leaders.
pro_1_9	Mandatory voting more impactful than making voting easier	 Mandatory voting more impactful than making voting easier
con_1_1	Mandatory voting does not enhance legitimacy of govt.	Mandatory voting does not enhance legitimacy of govt. Even if compulsory voting allows for abstention, legitimacy is not improved. It merely allows the government to say 'because there is a 100% turnout, this government is 100% legitimate', which is clearly not the case. Donkey votes, random votes, "just for the fun of it" votes, protest votes and abstentions do NOT contribute to improved legitimacy of the government. There is a reason why some people are less politically active. They neither know nor care about politics. How can their forced input add legitimacy to the mix? 
con_1_2	Mandatory voting pushes ignorant to vote	 Mandatory voting pushes ignorant to vote Some individuals resent the idea of compulsory voting, particularly if they have no interest in politics or no knowledge of the candidates. Others may be well-informed, but have no preference for any particular candidate, and have no wish to give support to the incumbent political system. Such people may vote at random simply to fulfill legal requirements: the so called donkey-vote may account for 1-2% of votes in these systems, which may affect the electoral process. Similarly, citizens may vote with a complete absence of knowledge of any of the candidates, or deliberately skew their ballot to slow the polling process or disrupt the election.
con_1_3	Not voting is often a form of political expression.	Not voting is often a form of political expression. Supporters of voluntary voting assert that low voter participation in a voluntary election is not necessarily an expression of voter dissatisfaction or general political apathy. It may be simply an expression of the citizenry's political will, indicating satisfaction with the political establishment in an electorate. Mark Latham urged Australians to hand in blank votes for the 2010 election. He stated the government should not force citizens to vote or threaten them with a fine.
con_1_4	Mandatory voting may increase hold of established parties	 Mandatory voting may increase hold of established parties "The case against compulsory voting in democracies." Helium: "the political system in America is concentrated in two parties, with only minor successes of alternate parties. These two parties, as opposed to eight competitive parties in Australia, spend millions of dollars annually encouraging their members to vote in elections. With the implementation of compulsive voting, the political parties would instead spend those millions trying to convince non-party members of the superiority of their respective positions. Instead of saving money, the two parties would only increase in power as more members join their folds, reducing the power of smaller parties to democratically compete."
con_1_5	Compulsory voting expands government, limits freedom.	Compulsory voting expands government, limits freedom. "The Case against Compulsory Voting." Musings. January 16th, 2010: "compulsory voting will require processes and man power to ensure adherence. Its a massive expansion of government and hence a colossal waste of tax payers money." 
con_1_6	Forcing a vote is as bad for democracy as poor turnout.	Forcing a vote is as bad for democracy as poor turnout. Debra Saunders. "The trouble with compulsory voting." Real Clear Politics. July 13th, 2010: "I do recognise that a low turnout in elections lends itself to questions about the legitimacy of those elected – and indeed, in the institutions themselves.  But if we are 'forced to be free' (and I’m using that in not quite the way Rousseau did, though if his assertion that we are only truly free when electing our representatives is correct, then it follows) then the legitimacy that we are bestowing upon those who represent us appears to be artificial and manufactured at best."
headline_2	Political education: Does mandatory voting help educate electorate?
pro_2_1	Mandatory voting compels voters to better educate themselves.	Mandatory voting compels voters to better educate themselves. Compulsory voting will potentially encourage voters to research the candidates' political positions more thoroughly. This may force candidates to be more open and transparent about their positions on many complex and controversial issues. Citizens will be willing to inform themselves even about unpopular policies and burning issues that need to be tackled (some even at the cost of social benefits). Better-informed voters will, therefore, oppose a plan that is unrealistic or would present an unnecessary budget-drain. This means that such a system could produce better political decisions that are not contradicting each other, quite upon the contrary.
pro_2_2	First-time voters will better inform themselves.	First-time voters will better inform themselves. William Galston, senior fellow in governance studies at the Brookings Institution. "Mandatory voting would loosen partisan gridlock." US News and World Report. July 8th, 2010: "In Australia, the case that I know the best, these nonvoters who are being drafted into the political system were referred to pejoratively as 'donkey voters' [who vote for candidates based only on their order on the ballot]. But in fact, once they have to vote, they may work a little bit harder than they would have otherwise to know what's going on."
pro_2_3	Mandatory voting makes first-time voters see value in vote	 Mandatory voting makes first-time voters see value in vote 
con_2_1	Compulsory voting won't compel voters to become more informed.	Compulsory voting won't compel voters to become more informed. Compulsory voting will not bring people's attention to politics. Why? If they were too lazy to vote in the first place, why should they go researching the issues now? They will simply go from the bar to the polling booth and back to the bar in as short a time as is feasible. Thus, this will result in anything but a more informed electorate and better policies.
con_2_2	Compulsory voting may cause backlash against participation.	Compulsory voting may cause backlash against participation. Compulsory voting may discourage political education of the citizens because people forced to participate may react against the perceived source of oppression.
con_2_3	Compulsory voting mistrusts intelligence of citizens.	Compulsory voting mistrusts intelligence of citizens. "The Case against Compulsory Voting." Musings. January 16th, 2010: "compulsory voting is a extreme form of cynicism. An Unwillingness to trust people's judgment. If people have to be forced to vote, I wonder what kind of democracy will that entail?"
headline_3	Rights: Is mandatory voting a requirement?
pro_3_1	Voting is more of a duty than a right.	Voting is more of a duty than a right. William Galston, senior fellow in governance studies at the Brookings Institution. "Mandatory voting would loosen partisan gridlock." US News and World Report. July 8th, 2010: "There probably are a lot of people who believe that not serving on juries is a right. But that's not how we see it in this country—it's a duty. So, the issue that my proposal puts on the table is: What are the responsibilities of American citizenship? That's a matter that we can decide collectively." Just like paying taxes, voting is essential and can be seen as a duty of each and every individual because of its great importance for the harmonious functioning of a society.
pro_3_2	Voting as duty makes people take it more seriously.	Voting as duty makes people take it more seriously. "On Voting as a Duty Versus Voting as a Right" Naked Capitalism. November 2nd, 2010: "So I’ve now become a believer in seeing voting as a duty on the theory that regarding it as obligatory, as opposed to elective, forces one to take it a tad more seriously." 
pro_3_3	Compulsory voting is smaller intrusion than jury duty, taxes, etc.	Compulsory voting is smaller intrusion than jury duty, taxes, etc. Other civic duties also exist, like paying taxes, attending school and, in some democracies, military conscription and jury duty. All of these obligatory actives require far more time and effort than voting does, thus compulsory voting can be seen as constituting a much smaller intrusion of freedom than any of these other activities.
pro_3_4	Benefits of mandatory voting outweigh costs to freedoms.	Benefits of mandatory voting outweigh costs to freedoms. Norman Ornstein. "Vote - or else." New York Times. August 10th, 2006: "Mandatory voting comes with a price: a modest loss of freedom. But this would be more than balanced by the revitalization of the rapidly vanishing center in American politics."
con_3_1	Mandatory voting undermines the right to vote	 Mandatory voting undermines the "right" to vote Voting is not a civic duty, but rather a civil right. While citizens may exercise their civil rights (free speech, marriage, etc.) they are not compelled to. Compulsory voting can be seen as infringing a basic freedom of the citizen. Some consider the fining of recalcitrant voters to be more oppressive still.
con_3_2	Voting is not a civic duty.	Voting is not a civic duty. A duty is a duty only when there is some tangible service involved. How can I, voting for what I myself want, be in any way performing a service for some else?
con_3_3	Compulsory voting violates freedom of choice.	Compulsory voting violates freedom of choice. A democracy is based on the principle of respecting basic human freedoms, such as free choice. This principle is directly violated by compulsory voting, as people do not have the right to choose not to express their view (should they have any).
con_3_4	Compulsory voting may infringe on freedom to express one's relgion.	Compulsory voting may infringe on freedom to express one's relgion. For example, most Jehovah's Witnesses believe that they should not participate in political events. Forcing them to vote explicitly denies them their freedom of religious practice. In some countries with universal voting, Jehovah's Witnesses and others may be excused on these grounds. If however they are obliged to show up to vote, they can still use a blank or invalid vote.
headline_4	Non-participation: Could this ability still be preserved?
pro_4_1	Voters could be given option to vote none of the above.	Voters could be given option to vote "none of the above." Keith Olbermann. "Make voting mandatory voting necessary." Salon. November 5, 2002: "The message has to be clear: We're not trying to make you vote for anybody. We just want you to show up. Every ballot, from the presidency to the sewage district supervisor, would have to include a 'none of the above' option. We might tinker with the terminology to make it hipper, and to tap into the incipient anger. 'None of the above' could become 'Screw you, politicians.'" 
pro_4_2	Protest voting composes a small percentage of total.	Protest voting composes a small percentage of total. William Galston, senior fellow in governance studies at the Brookings Institution. "Mandatory voting would loosen partisan gridlock." US News and World Report. July 8th, 2010: "There's not a lot of evidence that many people are casting protest votes or intentionally foolish votes or are spoiling their ballots. That's about 2 or 3 percent of the electorate. Those are the free spirits who resent the law so much that they are protesting in the only way that the law provides. But by and large, for the other 91 or 92 percent, the system is working just fine."
con_4_1	There are many reasons for not participating in elections.	There are many reasons for not participating in elections. Balaji Chithra Ganesan. "The Case against Compulsory Voting." Musings. January 16th, 2010: "People have genuine reasons not to vote. They could be working away from home and cannot afford to go home for voting. Daily labourers cannot miss a day's work. People might be sick, old and dying. People might be travelling for causes that are much more important like ... family. In the ridiculously staggered elections we have, people can have a holiday when their place of work goes to polls and not when their hometown goes to polls. Now how incredibly arrogant and perverted should someone be, to ask the above people to come, stand before a babu and explain their conduct? Or else face punishment! Really? How arrogant? How can citizens be treated with such disdain?"
headline_5	Enforcement: Can compulsory voting be enforced?
pro_5_1	Punishment for not voting could be modest but symbolic.	Punishment for not voting could be modest but symbolic. A fine could be imposed of between $15 and $100. This is tolerable, and if somebody really doesn't want to vote, they could easily absorb such a fee. The point is that it is a recognizable punishment and a modest incentive to participate in an election. Many other very small nominal punishments could be considered as an alternative as well.
pro_5_2	Exemptions for when citizens can't vote/pay.	Exemptions for when citizens can't vote/pay. Although voting in a country may be compulsory, penalties for failing to vote are not always strictly enforced. In Australia and Brazil, providing a legitimate reason for not voting (e.g. being sick or outside the country) is accepted. In Argentina, those who were ill on voting day, or over 500 kilometers away from their voting place are also excused, by requesting a doctor to prove their condition, in the first case; or asking for a certificate at a police station near where they are, in the second case. A homeless person could also presumably be exempted from paying a fee for not voting.
con_5_1	Mandatory voting would be difficult to enforce.	Mandatory voting would be difficult to enforce. Jerry Curtis. "The case against compulsory voting in democracies." Helium: "compulsory voting would probably cause additional problems in administering the vote, as well as problems in enforcement. (What about absentee voting?) Enforcing penalties (fines, public service, etc.) would further encumber our already clogged justice system. It would also adulterate our political process with worthless ballots from those voters who are uninterested and ill-informed. In short, voting is a right, but not an obligation."
con_5_2	Unacceptable to punish citizens when they aren't harming others.	Unacceptable to punish citizens when they aren't harming others. "The Case against Compulsory Voting." Musings. January 16th, 2010: "Article 21 of our constitution provides for 'Personal liberty'. I think its a violation of fundamental rights provided by that article, to make citizens explain their choices in such a whimsical issue as voting in the elections. And punishing citizens for not harming anyone's right to anything is utterly unacceptable. Remember, this article grants citizens the right to Emigrate out of India without having to give any reason."
headline_6	Access: Will mandatory voting improve access?
pro_6_1	Compulsory voting helps protect voter access.	Compulsory voting helps protect voter access. In a similar way that the secret ballot is designed to prevent interference with the votes actually cast, compulsory voting prevents interference with access to the vote. Compelling voters to the polls for an election mitigates the impact that external factors may have on an individual's capacity to vote such as the weather, transport, or restrictive employers. It is a measure to prevent disenfranchisement of the socially disadvantaged. Polls are generally held on a Saturday or Sunday as evidenced in nations such as Australia, to ensure that working people can fulfill their duty to cast their vote. Similarly, mobile voting booths may also be taken to old age homes and hospitals to cater for immobilized citizens, and postal voting may be provided for people who are away from their electorate on election day.
con_6_1	Quality of decisions matters more than access to vote.	Quality of decisions matters more than access to vote. The important thing is that informed citizens are electing the best possible candidates to lead communities, states, and an entire country. Access to vote is also important, but it is somewhat secondary to the ultimate question of quality leadership.
con_6_2	Money spent on mandatory voting is better spent elsewhere.	Money spent on mandatory voting is better spent elsewhere. "The Case against Compulsory Voting." Musings. January 16th, 2010: "Why would we divert resources to spy over people's political participation when that money could be spent on more useful sectors like Health and Education?"
con_6_3	Mandatory voting delivers more votes to Democrats.	Mandatory voting delivers more votes to Democrats. Debra Saunders. "The trouble with compulsory voting." Real Clear Politics. July 13th, 2010: "And while there is no proving that higher turnout means more left-leaning votes, political scientists of both stripes tend to believe that mandatory voting delivers more votes to the left than to the right. Again, quantity does not mean quality."
headline_7	Examples: Are there examples of succesfull mandatory voting?
pro_7_1	Mandatory voting has been succesful in Australia.	Mandatory voting has been succesful in Australia. Australia has had mandatory voting for decades without any problems and without serious protest or complaint. Voter participation has increased remarkably, along with the general awareness of the Australian citizenry. This demonstrates its viability in other countries. 
pro_7_2	Mandatory voting exists in over 30 countries.	Mandatory voting exists in over 30 countries. There are currently 32 countries with compulsory voting. Of these, only 12 countries (and one Swiss canton) enforce it. Of the 30 member states of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development 10 have forms of compulsory voting.
con_7_1	Mandatory voting is cheaper in less populated countries	 Mandatory voting is cheaper in less populated countries Lowa Prodigal. "The case against compulsory voting." Helium: "Keeping in mind that the United States has more than ten times the voting population of Australia, the financial cost for the two nations is vastly different. Since it costs the Australian government roughly five dollars for every ballot they evaluate, the greater number of voters in America would exponentially increase bureaucratic costs."
headline_8	Public opinion: Where does public opinion stand on this issue?
pro_8_1	American people will come around to mandatory voting.	American people will come around to mandatory voting. William Galston, senior fellow in governance studies at the Brookings Institution. "Mandatory voting would loosen partisan gridlock." US News and World Report. July 8th, 2010: "There was a poll a while back that found that more than 70 percent of Americans opposed a compulsory voting system. What we do know is that Americans over time change their minds on very fundamental questions. If you had polled Americans 50 years ago on interracial marriage, you would have found a majority opposed, but the Supreme Court acted nonetheless and now you have overwhelming majorities in favor. Once a conversation is started, if there is some intrinsic merit to the argument, then public opinion shifts over time. In my own view—which reflects a constitutional necessity since the electoral laws are largely determined by the 50 states—it would probably be a good idea for a handful of states to try mandatory voting for a couple of election cycles and see what happens."
pro_8_2	Compulsory voting seen as social norm where it exists	 Compulsory voting seen as social norm where it exists 
con_8_1	Compulsory voting won't necessarily make sure the better and capable government comes into power.	Compulsory voting won't necessarily make sure the better and capable government comes into power. Look, just because people are forced to vote now, it doesn't change the fact that they refused to vote in the first place because none of the political parties/candidates contesting has swayed their interest. The very reason they don't vote for any of the contesting candidates is very simply that the citizen thinks (for obvious reasons) that none of the candidates have come up with a manifesto that will solve problems in status quo; none of them will make fine policy-makers because of the lack of leadership portrayed ; and that possibly, all the contesting candidates have had previous issues that deem that incapable of leading the country. The entire purpose of voting would be defeated because it's no longer a civic duty based on the people's choice, but will become just another meaningless electoral technicality in the establishment of a government. 
con_8_2	Vast majority of Americans oppose mandatory voting.	Vast majority of Americans oppose mandatory voting. An ABC News poll conducted in the summer of 2004 found that 72 percent of those surveyed oppose the idea. The results are nearly identical to a similar poll conducted by Gallup in the 1960s. [1]
con_8_3	Compulsory voting would undermine barometer of interest.	Compulsory voting would undermine barometer of interest. Eric Weiner. "You Must Vote. It's the Law." Slate. October 29th, 2004: "Mandatory voting would be a nightmare to enforce and would rob us of an important barometer of public interest in politics. If everyone were required to vote, then nobody would be excited to vote."
con_8_4	Compulsory voting causes anti-govt feelings.	Compulsory voting causes anti-govt feelings. Democracy is based on the freewill of the individual. Enforcing participation invalidates this, and creates antipathy.
