title	Airport security profiling
question	Is airport security profiling a good idea?
headline_1	Effectiveness: Is profiling an effective strategy?
pro_1_1	Terrorists are most often Muslims; worth profiling them	 Terrorists are most often Muslims; worth profiling them Asra Q. Nomani. "Airport Security: Let's Profile Muslims." The Daily Beast. November 29th, 2010: "As an American Muslim, I’ve come to recognize, sadly, that there is one common denominator defining those who’ve got their eyes trained on U.S. targets: MANY of them are Muslim—like the Somali-born teenager arrested Friday night for a reported plot to detonate a car bomb at a packed Christmas tree-lighting ceremony in downtown Portland, Oregon. We have to talk about the taboo topic of profiling because terrorism experts are increasingly recognizing that religious ideology makes terrorist organizations and terrorists more likely to commit heinous crimes against civilians, such as blowing an airliner out of the sky. Certainly, it’s not an easy or comfortable conversation but it’s one, I believe, we must have."
pro_1_2	Profiling is about using a range of information, not race	 Profiling is about using a range of information, not race Sheldon H. Jacobson is a professor of computer science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. "The Right Kind of Profiling." New York Times Room for Debate. January 4th, 2010: "One solution is to use information about passengers (voluntarily provided and readily assessable) to eliminate those who have negligible risk factors, which should be the case for 60 to 70 percent of passengers. Then apply state-of-the art technologies for the remaining pool of passengers, for which less information is known, and subject them to the highest level of security screening, and in some cases, not allow them to fly. We can call this behavioral profiling, information profiling, or whatever we wish. However, until we use security resources appropriately, we will never achieve a secure air system."
pro_1_3	Profiling will use such information as nervousness at airport.	Profiling will use such information as nervousness at airport. Brigitte Gabriel, founder and president of ACT! for America, said in December of 2009: "We're not talking only about profiling Muslims. We need to take a lesson from the Israelis. When you go through security checkpoints in Tel Aviv airport, you have very highly trained screeners. Someone who is about to carry on a terrorist attack acts nervous, acts suspicious [under such scrutiny]." 
pro_1_4	Profiling would have caught Christmas day bomber	 Profiling would have caught Christmas day bomber Brigitte Gabriel, founder and president of ACT! for America, said in December of 2009 that profiling would have picked-up on would-be Christmas Day bomber Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab: "He paid for his ticket in cash. He did not have any luggage. He has a one-way ticket to the United States. And he is coming to a religious ceremony. It doesn't take more than two brain cells for anybody who is trained in this area to identify this guy as a bomber."[1]
con_1_1	Terrorists don't fit a neat profile	 Terrorists don't fit a neat profile Salam Al-Marayati, executive director of the Muslim Public Affairs Council. "Get the Intelligence Right." New York Times Room for Debate. January 4th, 2010: "Many terrorism suspects came from within the United States and European Union countries. Profiling does not help against individuals with names and ethnic backgrounds like Richard Reid, Jose Padilla, David Headley and Michael Finton."
con_1_2	Profile from one group and terrorists will recruit from another	 Profile from one group and terrorists will recruit from another Michael German, a former F.B.I. agent. "Wrong and Unworkable." New York Times Room for Debate. January 4, 2010: "Racial profiling is also unworkable. Once aware of national profiling, terrorists will simply use people from “non-profiled” countries or origins, like FBI most-wanted Qaeda suspect Adam Gadahn, an American. What will we do? Keep adding more countries to the list of 14 until we’ve covered the whole globe?"
con_1_3	Terrorists can easily beat profiling systems.	Terrorists can easily beat profiling systems. Bruce Schneier. "Profiling Makes Us Less Safe." New York Times, Room for Debate. January 4th, 2010: "And, even worse, profiling creates two paths through security: one with less scrutiny and one with more. And once you do that, you invite the terrorists to take the path with less scrutiny. That is, a terrorist group can safely probe any profiling system and figure out how to beat the profile. And once they do, they’re going to get through airport security with the minimum level of screening every time."
con_1_4	Terrorists could dress and behave differently to avoid profiling.	Terrorists could dress and behave differently to avoid profiling. Massoud Shadjareh, the chairman of the Islamic Human Rights Commission, said in January of 2010: "It's not true that all terrorists are Muslims. Any such measure would not only alienate people, it would also be ineffective in terms of stopping terrorists. What's to stop them dressing up as orthodox Jews in order to evade profiling-based searches?"[2]
con_1_5	Profiling counterproductively contributes to fear and insecurity.	Profiling counterproductively contributes to fear and insecurity. Ibrahim Hooper of the Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR) said in December of 2009 after the Christmas Day Bomber incident: "While everyone supports robust airline security measures, racial and religious profiling are in fact counterproductive and can lead to a climate of insecurity and fear."[3]
con_1_6	Profiling alienates groups needed in terrorism fight	 Profiling alienates groups needed in terrorism fight Salam Al-Marayati, executive director of the Muslim Public Affairs Council. "Will profiling make a difference?" New York Times Room for Debate. January 4th, 2010: "Treating all Muslims as suspects also undermines our efforts to gain intelligence on terrorists. We shouldn’t be profiling the very communities we need information from to catch the bad guys. Umar Abdul-Muttallab’s father gave us such information to prevent the Dec. 25 terror plot."
headline_2	Israel: Does Israel prove benefits of profiling?
pro_2_1	Profiling works well for Israel, can work well elsewhere	 Profiling works well for Israel, can work well elsewhere Thomas Sowell, senior fellow at the Hoover Institution. "Profiling at airports works for Israel." The Columbus Dispatch. November 24th, 2010: "No country has better airport security than Israel -- and no country needs it more, since Israel is the most hated target of Islamic extremist terrorists. Yet, somehow, Israeli airport security people don't have to strip passengers naked electronically or have strangers feeling their private parts. Does anyone seriously believe that we have better airport security than Israel? Is our security record better than theirs? 'Security' may be the excuse being offered for the outrageous things being done to American air travelers, but the heavy-handed arrogance and contempt for ordinary people that is the hallmark of this administration in other areas is all too apparent in these new and invasive airport procedures. [...] What do the Israeli airport security people do that American airport security do not do? They profile. They question some individuals for more than half an hour, open up all their luggage and spread the contents on the counter - and they let others go through with scarcely a word. And it works. Meanwhile, this administration is so hung up on political correctness that they have turned 'profiling' into a bugaboo. They would rather have scanners look under the clothes of nuns than to detain a Jihadist imam for questioning."
con_2_1	Israeli style profiling system not scalable in America.	Israeli style profiling system not scalable in America. Mark Thompson. "Profiling, Political Correctness, and Airport Security." The League of Ordinary Gentleman. November 29th, 2010: "I think it’s pretty clear that the reason a “profiling” system would not work and indeed has not been attempted in the US is that it’s not scaleable.  Israel has one major airport, which by US standards would only be “mid-sized.”  Yet look at the security line at that airport, which is more befitting of Newark or Atlanta than it is of Pittsburgh or St. Louis.  A good profiling system is labor-intensive in a way that 0ur system simply does not have the capacity to implement, and would unacceptably undermine the numerous sectors of our economy that rely heavily on air transportation.  And this says nothing of the direct economic costs of appropriately training and paying security officers charged with conducting the profiling.  Nor, as the article above suggests, does it say anything about eliminating the  bureaucratic infighting and secrecy amongst American intelligence agencies in a manner that would allow tens of thousands of airport security personnel access to the intelligence necessary to adequately do their jobs."
con_2_2	Profiling makes far less sense in America than Israel	 Profiling makes far less sense in America than Israel Mark Thompson. "Profiling, Political Correctness, and Airport Security." The League of Ordinary Gentleman. November 29th, 2010: "None of this is to pretend that the Israeli system is race, ethnicity, or religion-neutral. However, it must be emphasized that the Israeli constitution is different from our constitution, and that the threats Israel faces from terrorism are both greater and different in nature than the threats we face." [read full quote in argument page.]
headline_3	Rights: Is profiling consistent with individual rights?
pro_3_1	Political correctness should not prevent profiling/safety.	Political correctness should not prevent profiling/safety. Michael Reagan, son of President Ronald Reagan. "Profiling is answer for U.S. airport security." Athens Banner-Herald. November 27, 2010: "Political correctness killed innocent people at Fort Hood, an Army base in Texas, when Maj. Nidal Malik Hasan gunned down 13 people and wounded many others despite the fact that his fellow officers were aware of his attachment to radical Islamism and all that it implied. It is the same political correctness that is stopping us today from doing what we truly need to be doing at airports and other public places: profiling all passengers."
pro_3_2	Profiling is about using a range of information, not race	 Profiling is about using a range of information, not race Mike Farmer: "It still amazes me how words can be so quickly demonized, so the very mention of the word causes irrational outrage. Profile doesn’t mean baseless discrimination against a certain nationality or race — in this case, it means judging people at airports by set of criteria which raise a red flag."[4]
pro_3_3	Race and religion are not even worth using for profiling	 Race and religion are not even worth using for profiling 
pro_3_4	Most people accept profiling as necessary for security.	Most people accept profiling as necessary for security. Khalid Mahmood, the Labour MP for Birmingham Perry Barr: "I think most people would rather be profiled than blown up. It wouldn't be victimisation of an entire community. I think people will understand that it is only through something like profiling that there will be some kind of safety. If people want to fly safely we have to take measures to stop things like the Christmas Day plot. Profiling may have to be the price we have to pay. The fact is the majority of people who have carried out or planned these terror attacks have been Muslims."[5]
con_3_1	Airport profiling would make minority groups second-class citizens.	Airport profiling would make minority groups second-class citizens. Mark Thompson. "Profiling, Political Correctness, and Airport Security." The League of Ordinary Gentleman. November 29th, 2010: "So it’s not 'political correctness' (aka the Equal Protection clause of the 14th Amendment) that is standing in the way of replacing full-body scans with a strong and effective profiling system: it’s reality.  All that 'political correctness' is preventing is the implementation of an equally (and likely even more) ineffective piece of security theater in which we single out one  minority group for intensive screening while giving a pass to everyone else.  This would certainly annoy fewer people, but it wouldn’t make us safer and its sole benefits would be accomplished by treating an entire minority group as second-class citizens." 
con_3_2	Profiling is institutionalized racism.	Profiling is institutionalized racism. Michael German, a former F.B.I. agent. "Wrong and Unworkable." New York Times Room for Debate. January 4, 2010: "Finally, and not inconsequentially, racial profiling is wrong, un-American and unconstitutional. It is institutionalized racism."
con_3_3	Profiling gives terrorists a justification for their acts.	Profiling gives terrorists a justification for their acts. Michael German, a former F.B.I. agent. "Wrong and Unworkable." New York Times Room for Debate. January 4, 2010: "when we abandon our principles, we not only betray our values, we also run the risk of undermining international and community support for counterterrorism efforts by providing an injustice for terrorists to exploit as a way of justifying further acts of terrorism."
headline_4	Screening: Is broad screening (scanners and pat-downs) less effective?
pro_4_1	Profiling will help avoid invasive scanners and pat-downs.	Profiling will help avoid invasive scanners and pat-downs. Body-scanning and patting-down all travelers, including older disabled men and women, is excessive and often invasive. Many feel very strongly that the procedure violates their privacy. Profiling those individuals that are a real potential threat is a good way to avoid these problems.
pro_4_2	Broad security screening wastes scarce security resources	 Broad security screening wastes scarce security resources Sheldon H. Jacobson, professor of computer science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. "The Right Kind of Profiling." New York Times Room for Debate. January 4th, 2010: "More screening can actually result in less security by directing security attention and resources (which by definition, are finite) onto people who are not a threat, which in turn moves such attention and resources away from people who are a threat."
pro_4_3	Profiling rightly shifts focus from cargo to people.	Profiling rightly shifts focus from cargo to people. Rafi Sela. "Multilayered Security." New York Times, Room for Debate. January 4th, 2010: "The security focus should to shift to people and not cargo (luggage). My point is that if you know who is flying, you don’t really need to check for water bottles and nail files, but can direct more resources to looking for explosives and drugs." - Rafi Sela is president of AR Challenges, is an international transportation security consultant based in Israel.
pro_4_4	Broad screening creates lines that become terrorist targets.	Broad screening creates lines that become terrorist targets. Philip Baum, editor of Aviation Security International. "Common Sense Profiling Works." New York Times Room for Debate. January 4th, 2010: "Body scanners should have been deployed years ago as the threat of a passenger carrying explosives on their body is not a recent discovery. Yet, we should not use them to screen all passengers or even all those flying on a given route. They need to be used intelligently or we will simply create even longer lines at our security checkpoints which may be the next target for a suicidal bomber."
con_4_1	Broad screening at airports does make us safer.	Broad screening at airports does make us safer. Bruce Schneier. "Profiling Makes Us Less Safe." New York Times, Room for Debate. January 4th, 2010: "As counterintuitive as it may seem, we’re all more secure when we randomly select people for secondary screening — even if it means occasionally screening wheelchair-bound grandmothers and innocent looking children." 
