title	Ban on caffeinated alcohol drinks
question	
headline_1	Safety: Are caffeinated alcohol drinks unsafe?
pro_1_1	Caffeinated alcohol drinks are generally unsafe.	Caffeinated alcohol drinks are generally unsafe. Michigan's liquor control commission banned the commercial sale of Four Loko and other alcoholic energy drinks in November of 2010, stating that they "pose serious health and safety risks to American youth, present a threat to the public health and safety."[1]
pro_1_2	Caffeinated alcohol drinks mask effects of alcohol.	Caffeinated alcohol drinks mask effects of alcohol. Yakima Herald-Republic. October 27th, 2010 "Professor Ken Briggs, chairman of CWU's Department of Physical Education, calls drinks like Four Loko 'a binge-drinkers dream,' as the caffeine and other stimulants enable drinkers to drink a lot without passing out or employing the body's normal defenses against overindulging, such as vomiting or stumbling around."
pro_1_3	Caffeinated alcohol drinks have harmed lives/communities	 Caffeinated alcohol drinks have harmed lives/communities "EDITORIAL: Ban Big-Bang Beer." The Columbian, Editorial. November 15 2010: "The ravages of these high-octane mixtures of alcohol and caffeine have spread through Clark County. Local counselors say teenagers drink the stuff like soda, and consumption has increased greatly in recent months. In September, four teenagers were injured in a car crash after allegedly consuming caffeinated malt liquor. Also, an officer-involved fatal shooting of a 22-year-old man occurred after the war veteran had consumed as many as four cans of the stuff. We see no need to increase long-standing regulation of other alcoholic beverages. But when there are repeated instances of young people -- in a matter of mere months -- guzzling potentially deadly beverages, it's time to take action. And the eagerness of the Washington Beer and Wine Wholesalers Association to enact this ban further proves it's the right thing to do."
pro_1_4	Not enough evidence that caffeinated alcohol drinks are safe.	Not enough evidence that caffeinated alcohol drinks are safe. Michigan Liquor Control Commission Chairwoman Nida Samona: "The commission's concern for health, safety and welfare of Michigan citizens and the fact that there is not enough research to validate that these products are safe for consumption has made me believe that until further research is done by the FDA, they should no longer be on Michigan shelves."
con_1_1	Too few have died from Four Loco to justify ban.	Too few have died from Four Loco to justify ban. "Don't ban four loco in N.H." The New Hampshire, Editorial. November 12th, 2010: "Banning Four Loko at any level,  whether across campus or across the state, is a gross overreaction. First of all, of the millions of students enrolled in institutions of higher education, an incredibly small percentage has been hospitalized after consuming the beverage. Yes, a few have died. Unfortunately, college students die from alcohol poisoning every year. That would be happening without Four Loko."
con_1_2	Combining caffeine and alcohol is nothing new.	Combining caffeine and alcohol is nothing new. "Don't ban four loco in N.H." The New Hampshire, Editorial. November 12th, 2010: "Yes, the combination of caffeine and alcohol poses a situation somewhat different than just drinking a traditional alcoholic beverage. But it's not as if no one thought to combine alcohol and caffeine. Ever heard of a Red Bull and Vodka or Irish coffee? Caffeine is legal. Alcohol is legal. How does legal plus legal equal illegal?"
con_1_3	Kids have been getting drunk for years; Four Loco nothing new	 Kids have been getting drunk for years; Four Loco nothing new Washington Beer Blog. Seattle PI. Nov 18th, 2010: "We've all heard the recent news about Four Loko, the highly alcoholic, caffeinated beverage-of-choice for people looking for a shortcut to inebriation. In case you've been living in a proverbial cave, here's what happened. A bunch of college kids got wasted, not using beer bongs and Schlitz Malt Liquor, but using something called Four Loko. Some of these kids, including some underage drinkers, ended up in the hospital. That's a drag, really it is; however, those college students did much more than simply get sick and wasted at a party. They let the cat out of the bag. You see, until that party in Roslyn, nobody knew that college kids like to get wasted. It was a well kept secret that many coeds are on a mission to find the shortest route to hammertown."
con_1_4	Combination of caffeine/alcohol not inherently unsafe.	Combination of caffeine/alcohol not inherently unsafe. Editorial: "Public health, and a little public relations." MPN Now.com. November 18th, 2010: "the managing partners of the company that makes Four Loko told the Associated Press this week, 'We have repeatedly contended — and still believe, as do many people throughout the country — that the combination of alcohol and caffeine is safe.'"
con_1_5	A bottle of liqueur is as dangerous as Four Loco.	A bottle of liqueur is as dangerous as Four Loco. "Banning alcoholic energy drinks is loco." USF Oracle. November 8th, 2010: "Many complain that Four Loko's 23.5 ounce can is too large to contain 12 percent alcohol and that it's too dangerous to mix alcohol with ingredients like caffeine and guarana, which are the active ingredients in energy drinks. However, bottles of liquor can contain more than six times as much alcohol as Four Loko. Wine can easily contain just as much at 12 to 15 percent alcohol. Both come in much larger sizes."
headline_2	Responsibility: Can individual responsibility be trusted here?
pro_2_1	Four Loco makes abuse far too easy.	Four Loco makes abuse far too easy. Yakima Herald-Republic. October 27th, 2010: "Reasons are many for the concern. Start with the potency: Four Loko is 12 percent alcohol, more than double that of mass-produced beer brands like Budweiser or Miller and well above the 7.5 percent of the imposing-sounding Foreign Extra Stout by Guinness and many IPAs. The servings are massive; one can of Four Loko contains 23.5 fluid ounces, about double the size of a standard beer can. So in terms of alcohol, a single can of Four Loko equals four or five cans of the usual stuff. Four Loko is among about two dozen products on the market that combine a stimulant with alcohol. The alcohol content is actually more like that of wine, whose alcohol levels run in the 11 percent to 13 percent range and whose normal bottle size is 25.4 ounces. So one can of Four Loko is like one bottle of your favorite chardonnay. But there's more to it than that. It's the stimulants that make the drinks so insidious, according to McKenna. The drinks contain a heavy dose of caffeine and fruity, sweet flavors to cover the taste of alcohol and make it go down easy. [...] And the cost is a mere $2.50 a can; compare that to your favorite chardonnay or hard liquor of choice, or even a six-pack of beer. Four Loko is easily available at your local convenience store. Yes, alcohol of any sort can be abused -- whether at a wine tasting or a hops festival -- but the combination of all of the above simply makes it too easy. Sorry kids, this is different."
pro_2_2	Caffeine-alcohol drinks a public hazard, not just individual matter.	Caffeine-alcohol drinks a public hazard, not just individual matter. The idea that caffeine-alcohol drinks are a matter of individual responsibility, ignores that the drinks increase aggressive behavior, fights, date rape, and domestic abuse. And, a death or episode of alcohol poisoning has a negative impact on communities. So, this is a public health and safety issue, not just and individual responsibility issue. 
con_2_1	One can consume caffeinated alcohol drinks responsibly	 One can consume caffeinated alcohol drinks responsibly "Don't ban four loco in N.H." The New Hampshire, Editorial. November 12th, 2010: "Let's be clear. You can consume Four Loko responsibly. Taking a sip of the beverage doesn't immediately turn you into an animal."
con_2_2	Banning caffeine-alcohol drinks undermines personal responsibility.	Banning caffeine-alcohol drinks undermines personal responsibility. USA Today reported Herman Harris, 27, of Baton Rouge, saying in November of 2010: "I don't think it needs to be pulled off the market. I'm a 100% advocate for personal responsibility. You have to read the label. You can't just load up and think it won't do anything."[2]
con_2_3	People can easily combine caffeine and alcohol on own.	People can easily combine caffeine and alcohol on own. "Banning alcoholic energy drinks is loco." USF Oracle. November 8th, 2010: "After consuming alcohol, someone could easily drink coffee or an energy drink and experience effects similar to Four Loko. Mixed drinks such as Jager bombs — which mix Jägermeister and Red Bull — and Vodka and Red Bull are already popular choices, and have been for quite some time." 
con_2_4	Alcohol will always be abused; don't skapegoat Four Loko.	Alcohol will always be abused; don't skapegoat Four Loko. "Banning alcoholic energy drinks is loco." USF Oracle. November 8th, 2010: "Regardless of its form, alcohol will always be abused by some individuals. Four Loko is just the latest victim to be dismissed by this reality, and it doesn't warrant being banned on college campuses or anywhere else."
con_2_5	Banning caffeine-alcohol drinks expands govt in lives.	Banning caffeine-alcohol drinks expands govt in lives. "Banning alcoholic energy drinks is loco." USF Oracle. November 8th, 2010: "In contemporary U.S. society, most commercials featuring alcoholic beverages come with a warning to 'Drink Responsibly.' Heeding this advice is the key, not more government control and intrusion in private citizens' lives."
headline_3	Priorities: Is a ban an important priority?
pro_3_1	Caffeinated alcohol drinks often advertised toward youth	 Caffeinated alcohol drinks often advertised toward youth "EDITORIAL: Ban Big-Bang Beer. All Business, Editorial. November 15 2010: "marketing strategies of companies that sell these 'blackout in a can' products have been clearly offensive. Often the brightly colored cans of fruit-flavored danger are placed on shelves next to traditional energy drinks. [Washington Governor Chris] Gregoire correctly surmised: 'It's no different than the kind of appeal that Joe Camel had to our kids when it came to cigarettes.'"
con_3_1	More important priorities than banning alcoholic energy drinks.	More important priorities than banning alcoholic energy drinks. "Don't ban Four Loko in H.H." The New Hampshire, Editorial. November 12, 2010: "It's unfortunate that Mr. Schumer can't concentrate on more important topics; Four Loko should not be among a senator's top priorities. Schumer's involvement in the issue is similar to politicians bashing Facebook's privacy policy. It's good for some free PR. Try mounting a campaign against the Bush tax cuts, Mr. Schumer, or actually make progress against repealing "Don't Ask, Don't Tell."
headline_4	Party enhancements: Do caffeine-alcohol drinks impair or enhance party?
pro_4_1	Caffeinated alcohol drinks can easily ruin the party.	Caffeinated alcohol drinks can easily ruin the party. Caffeinated alcohol drinks, by masking the effects of alcohol, can easily cause a person to drink too much, and, therefore, result in a trip to the emergency room. This can ruin a party, embarrass individuals, scare the heck out of friends, and even result in death or permanent damage. None of this adds to the party. 
pro_4_2	Caffeinated alcohol drinks cause aggressive behavior.	Caffeinated alcohol drinks cause aggressive behavior. These drinks have resulted in an increase aggressive behavior, fights, date rape, and domestic abuse. Does this enhance the party? No, it ruins the party.
con_4_1	Caffeinated alcohol drinks enliven and extend the party.	Caffeinated alcohol drinks enliven and extend the party. Andrew Grunanwald, an Ohio State Senior, said to NBC4: "I think it's just the combination of the two. Alcohol helps you get drunk and the caffeine just keeps you going throughout the night."[3]
con_4_2	Ban on Four Loco wrongly spoils fun of responsible drinkers.	Ban on Four Loco wrongly spoils fun of responsible drinkers. "Banning alcoholic energy drinks is loco." USF Oracle. November 8th, 2010: "With these types of bans, there are countless adults over the age of 21 who would no longer be able to responsibly enjoy a product designed for them because the government determined it's not safe for irresponsible users."
headline_5	Vs. smoking: How do energy alcohol drinks compare to smoking?
pro_5_1	One cannot overdose on smoking like with Four Loco.	One cannot overdose on smoking like with Four Loco. Four Loco can cause death by alcohol poisoning, and can cause altered and aggressive behavior. Cigarettes, while very damaging to one's health over the long-term, cannot cause such immediate death nor mind-altering and aggressive behavior. 
con_5_1	Alcoholic caffeine drinks no worse than cigarettes.	Alcoholic caffeine drinks no worse than cigarettes. "Don't ban four loco in N.H." The New Hampshire, Editorial. November 12th, 2010: "Smoking will destroy far more lives this year than Four Loko will do in dozens, and even that is not outright banned. Nor should it be."
headline_6	Economics : The economic pros/cons of implementing a ban on caffeinated alcohol drinks
headline_7	Vs. education: Is a ban better than an education campaign?
pro_7_1	Education campaigns cannot protect lives like ban.	Education campaigns cannot protect lives like ban. Public safety requires swift and decisive action. When alcoholic energy drinks pose a direct threat to lives, health, and public safety, a government ban is appropriate. And education campaign is an impotent response to a serious threat. 
con_7_1	Education better than banning caffeinated alcohol drinks.	Education better than banning caffeinated alcohol drinks. "Don't ban four loco in N.H." The New Hampshire, Editorial. November 12th, 2010: "Don't take away individual rights. If you want to discourage something, educate us on its risks. It makes more sense to convince us to follow a practice than to force it upon us (particularly in this case, when it's not that hard to get across the state's border). Education is the way to go. We gladly published a guest op-ed on Tuesday from UNH Health Services, and we believe the media's coverage has made the risks obvious."
