title	Funding transparency for TV issue ads in elections
question	Should all election funding be made transparent?
headline_1	Democracy: Is issue ad funding transparency essential to democracy?
pro_1_1	TV issue ads conceal sources of funding behind shadow orgs	 TV issue ads conceal sources of funding behind shadow orgs "Ignore that $800,000 behind the curtain." The Economist Democracy in America Blog. Oct 4th 2010: "the New York Times' Mike McIntyre set out to find out what you'd have to do in order to discover who the actual donors are behind these kinds of expenditures [for TV issue ads]. The verdict? You can't. Mr McIntyre tries to track down a mid-sized nonprofit called the Coalition of American Seniors, which was just formed in June and has so far spent $400,000 on ads featuring smart-alecky babies in diapers attacking the Democratic health-reform bill. After a long odyssey through Delaware post-office boxes and registered service agents, he finds that the group's telephone number rings at the offices of a Florida health-insurance broker; the political consulting firm the group lists seems to refer to just one guy, who refuses to provide any information about who its donors are."
pro_1_2	Issue ad funding transparency is a clear democratic imperative	 Issue ad funding transparency is a clear democratic imperative President Obama warned in August of 2010: "[Currently, corporations] can buy millions of dollars worth of TV ads - and worst of all, they don't even have to reveal who is actually paying for them. [...] You don't know if it's a foreign-controlled corporation. You don't know if it's BP."[1]
pro_1_3	General statements in favor of campaign ad transparency	 General statements in favor of campaign ad transparency Democratic Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev.: "We have these nameless, faceless individuals spending huge amounts of money, corporate money and other money. There is certainly no transparency whatsoever."[2]
con_1_1	Opponents of anonymous campaign ads are just clinging to power	 Opponents of anonymous campaign ads are just clinging to power Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said Democrats were playing "pure politics" in trying to stop opponents from criticizing Democratic policies. "They're trying to rig the system to their advantage. That's it. It's quite simple."[3]
con_1_2	Anonymity ensures that arguments rise above identity attacks.	Anonymity ensures that arguments rise above identity attacks. When the identity of a person or organization is concealed, their arguments are considered at face-value on their merits. When identity gets involved, the focus of attention often surrounds the motivations and past actions of the individuals and orgs involved, distracting from the arguments. If democracy depends on a focus on the best arguments in the public debate, anonymity certainly is helpful.
con_1_3	General statements against disclosing TV issue ad funding	 General statements against disclosing TV issue ad funding The NRA opposes the 2010 DISCLOSE Act’s disclaimer provision requiring TV campaign ads to list the top five donors for the ads: “There is no legitimate reason to include the NRA in H.R. 5175′s overly burdensome disclosure and reporting requirements,” wrote the NRA to congressional leaders.[4]
headline_2	Anonymity: Is anonymity of funding part of free speech rights?
pro_2_1	Anonymous funding of TV ads runs against principles of free speech	 Anonymous funding of TV ads runs against principles of free speech "Ignore that $800,000 behind the curtain." The Economist Democracy in America Blog. Oct 4th 2010: "It's all about freedom of speech and political participation, I'm told. I'm trying to imagine an analogy for this situation in a New England town meeting, circa 1789. Maybe there are huge curtains hanging along the walls. Some of the town's citizens sit in the meeting hall's pews, occasionally trying to be heard in little piping voices. They are overwhelmed by booming orations emanating from behind the curtains. "Henry Waddingstone is a British agent!" "Zachary Hurlburt will take away the grazing commons!" Who is speaking? The Coalition for a Grazeable Massachussetts? Who's that? Nobody knows. Nobody ever will."
pro_2_2	If you're going to attack a candidate, reveal your identity	 If you're going to attack a candidate, reveal your identity Virginia Representative Rick Boucher (D): "And I think my constituents view with deep suspicion anyone who says, 'We're going to attack your congressman, but we're not going to tell you who we are.'"[5]
pro_2_3	Anonymity brings out the worst in campaign attack ads	 Anonymity brings out the worst in campaign attack ads "Editorial: Public has right to know who is funding campaign ads." Grand Rapids Press Editorial. August 24, 2010: "Anonymity brings out the worst in political ads, sharp edges designed to wound rather than enlighten. U.S. Rep. Peter Hoekstra, R-Holland, felt the sting. Mr. Hoekstra was on the receiving end of attacks from several groups in his unsuccessful bid for governor. They included Americans For Job Security, Michigan Taxpayers Alert and Peace & Prosperity Project."
con_2_1	Anonymity is essential to free speech in modern democracy	 Anonymity is essential to free speech in modern democracy Electronic Frontier Foundation on Anonymity: "Anonymous communications have an important place in our political and social discourse. The Supreme Court has ruled repeatedly that the right to anonymous free speech is protected by the First Amendment. A much-cited 1995 Supreme Court ruling in McIntyre v. Ohio Elections Commission reads 'Protections for anonymous speech are vital to democratic discourse. Allowing dissenters to shield their identities frees them to express critical, minority views...Anonymity is a shield from the tyranny of the majority.... It thus exemplifies the purpose behind the Bill of Rights, and of the First Amendment in particular: to protect unpopular individuals from retaliation...at the hand of an intolerant society.' The tradition of anonymous speech is older than the United States. Founders Alexander Hamilton, James Madison, and John Jay wrote the Federalist Papers under the pseudonym 'Publius,' and 'the Federal Farmer' spoke up in rebuttal. The US Supreme Court has repeatedly recognized rights to speak anonymously derived from the First Amendment. The right to anonymous speech is also protected well beyond the printed page. Thus, in 2002, the Supreme Court struck down a law requiring proselytizers to register their true names with the Mayor's office before going door-to-door." [This article on anonymity was not written by EFF as an explicit endorsement of anonymous funding for TV issue ads].
headline_3	Partisanship: Does anonymity worsen partisanship?
pro_3_1	Business-wedded Republican party receives bulk of issue ad support	 Business-wedded Republican party receives bulk of issue ad support Speaking at the National Press Club Thursday, Sen. Bob Menendez (D-N.J.) called the partisan spending around issue ads indicative of the GOP's legislative agenda: "I assume that when you have big banks, big oil and big insurance, there is a reason why so much independent expenditure is taking place on the Republican side."[6]
pro_3_2	2010 US elections show why transparent campaign ads needed	 2010 US elections show why transparent campaign ads needed "Editorial: Public has right to know who is funding campaign ads." Grand Rapids Press Editorial. August 24, 2010: "if the August primary is any indication, the Nov. 2 general will provide plenty of evidence of why a legal overhaul is badly needed. Almost 40 percent, or $4 million, of the money spent in the gubernatorial primary on television advertising skirted hard disclosure rules applied to other campaign spending, according to figures collected by the Michigan Campaign Finance Network. The $4 million came from groups running “issue ads.” The ads do not rely on court-defined magic words such as “vote for” or “vote against.” Because of that omission, they don’t make the detailed donor reports required of campaign committees."
pro_3_3	Committee spending requires disclosure, so should corporate spending	 Committee spending requires disclosure, so should corporate spending "Editorial: Public has right to know who is funding campaign ads." Grand Rapids Press Editorial. August 24, 2010: "Candidate committees spent $6.7 million for television advertising in the primary. We know the sources of that money, which is limited and fully disclosed. [Why not for TV issue ads?]" 
pro_3_4	Attack ads are a part of politics, but sources must be known	 Attack ads are a part of politics, but sources must be known "Editorial: Public has right to know who is funding campaign ads." Grand Rapids Press Editorial. August 24, 2010: "Nothing will stop punch-throwing in politics. But the public has a right to know who’s landing the blows." 
con_3_1	Liberal groups can raise anonymous funding for ads too	 Liberal groups can raise anonymous funding for ads too Sean Parnell. "A campaign finance 'reform' twofer from Think Progress." Center for Competitive Politics. October 5, 2010: "if the question can and should be asked of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, what about other entities that receive funds from foreign entities? For example, the Wikipedia entry on the Service Employees International Union states: Service Employees International Union (SEIU) is a labor union representing about 1.8 million workers in over 100 occupations in the United States, Canada, and Puerto Rico. Likewise, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters also reports members (and therefore, member dues) from Canada, and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers has members not just in Canada but also Panama and several Caribbean nations. And the AFL-CIO includes several member unions that include foreign members, such as the International Association of Heat and Frost Insulators and Allied Workers, the  Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers' International Union and the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and Helpers. In fact, nearly half of the membership of the AFL-CIO have the term 'International' in their names or some other indication of foreign membership (the United Association of Journeymen and Apprentices of the Plumbing and Pipe Fitting Industry of the United States and Canada), and it is a certainty that other unions also have foreign membership. So, both the U.S. Chamber and the AFL-CIO have involvement with affiliated foreign entities, but only the Chamber's foreign members are of concern to the "reformers" at Think Progress and the Center for American Progress. I guess we can file this away as yet another example of why few believed the "reform" spin that the DISCLOSE Act treated corporations and unions equally."
headline_4	Foreign interests: Does anonymous funding of issue ads enable foreign interests?
pro_4_1	Foreign interests could be funding anonymous issue ads	 Foreign interests could be funding anonymous issue ads Virginia Representative Rick Boucher (D): "We don't know who's funding these ads. These could be foreign interests that are hostile to the United States for all we know."[7]
con_4_1	Foreign funding in US election sis prohibited under current law	 Foreign funding in US election sis prohibited under current law Sean Parnell. "A campaign finance 'reform' twofer from ThinkProgress. Center for Competitive Politics. October 5th, 2010: "For months, we've been told that Citizens United "opened the floodgates" to foreign spending in U.S. elections. CCP has pointed out numerous times that this was not the case, that the Supreme Court left intact the federal law as well as Federal Election Commission regulations prohibiting foreign expenditures in U.S. elections. Today's post by Think Progress, however, acknowledges what we have been saying all along, that foreign spending in U.S. elections remains prohibited. From the excerpt above: According to legal experts consulted by ThinkProgress, the Chamber is likely skirting longstanding campaign finance law that bans the involvement of foreign corporations in American elections. Well, so much for that 'reform' talking point." 
