title	US Renewable Electricity Standard
question	Is a US National Renewable Energy Standard a good idea?
headline_1	Climate: Will RES help solve climate change and environmental problems?
pro_1_1	Renewable energy standard ensures market certainty for clean energy	 Renewable energy standard ensures market certainty for clean energy Daniel Goldfarb. "Renewable Energy Standard: Symbolism or Substance?" Huffington Post. September 28th, 2010: "In terms of the real effects of this policy, the passage of this bill would send a stable signal to companies that there will be a market for renewable energy in America ten years down the road, although it will do nothing to guarantee that it will be a robust market. With the impending changes in Congress's make up as well as the expirations of the Clean Energy Treasury Grant Program, the Production Tax Credit (PTC), the Investment Tax Credit (ITC) and ARRA's funding for energy innovation and deployment, America's clean-energy sector may be heading towards a cliff. Although the RES will do little to push America's market for clean-energy past business-as-usual, it will ensure that the market doesn't begin moving backwards. For this reason it is important that this particular bill, in the words of Wentworth, provides a "floor, not a ceiling" for America's clean-energy economy." And, of course, growing America's clean energy economy in this way will help lower US emissions and fight climate change.
con_1_1	Reduced emissions from RES may have no impact on climate change	 Reduced emissions from RES may have no impact on climate change Jonathan DuHamel. "National Renewable Energy Standard Will Mean Higher Electricity Bills." Tuscon Citizen. September 30th, 2010: "The alleged rationale for RES is to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and thereby forestall global warming (now “climate disruption”) although there is no credible evidence that reduced emissions will have a measurable effect on climate." 
con_1_2	General statements against US Renewable Electricity Standard	 General statements against US Renewable Electricity Standard Charles Steele. "A national renewable energy standard is a mistake." Daily Caller. July 15, 2010: "[A renewable electricity standard will] harm regional efforts to promote local renewable energy generation, require our ratepayers to bear an unfair economic burden, unnecessarily usurp states’ current authority on resource planning and transmission line certification and siting, and hamper efforts create clean energy jobs in our states."
headline_2	Economy: Is a renewable energy standard good for the economy?
pro_2_1	Renewable Energy Standard fosters clean energy economy and jobs	 Renewable Energy Standard fosters clean energy economy and jobs Amelia Timbers. "Why a National Renewable Energy Standard *Is* a Jobs Bill." Triple Pundit. February 25th, 2010: "Last week, the American Wind Energy Association held a webinar that went through a study by Navigant Consulting, pointing to the many ways passing a national renewable electricity standard would lead to an economic boon across the U.S. It seems that the FOXNews message that a climate change bill would hurt job growth is untrue. (Surprised?) Paired with rigorous renewable energy standards, Navigant Consulting suggests that 274,000 blue collar construction jobs could be added in areas of the country that need both jobs and renewable energy. While Navigant based its assumptions on the big “if” that climate change legislation passes both houses, however its study should increase the momentum toward such a result. The bad news is that without a climate change/ increased renewable energy standard combination, all states will see renewable energy jobs cut between the years 2010 and 2025, with the heaviest losses in California. Why? Because without increasing requirements for sustainable energy that drive up the demand for renewable energy in other states, California’s proliferating cleantech business is likely to plateau after meeting California’s needs."
pro_2_2	RES will cause electricity to rise only slightly, then decline.	RES will cause electricity to rise only slightly, then decline. A 2010 Energy Information Administration, a branch of the Department of Energy, estimated a 25 percent renewable electricity standard would raise electricity prices by up to 3 percent in the next decade, but have a negligible impact by 2030. The analysis also found that such an RES would cut electricity sector carbon dioxide emissions by 7 to 12 percent by 2030.[1]
pro_2_3	Renewable energy standard ensures US green tech competitiveness	 Renewable energy standard ensures US green tech competitiveness A 2010 Ernst & Young report, found that China has passed the U.S. for the first time to become the most attractive destination for global clean energy investment: "This issue sees the US relinquishing its top position held since 2006 -- dropping two points to slip behind China, effectively crowning the Asian giant the most attractive market for renewables investment. This follows the failure in the US Senate’s proposed energy bill to include a Federal Renewable Energy Standard (RES) provision."[2]
pro_2_4	Renewable Electricity Standard ensures clean jobs aren't outsourced	 Renewable Electricity Standard ensures clean jobs aren't outsourced Amelia Timbers. "Why a National Renewable Energy Standard *Is* a Jobs Bill." Triple Pundit. February 25th, 2010: "good news is that this level of renewable energy requirements would keep renewable energy jobs in the US that may otherwise be exported to Asia."
pro_2_5	Renewable Electricity Standard is more consistent than tax credits	 Renewable Electricity Standard is more consistent than tax credits David Roberts. "Does the RES stand a chance?" Grist. September 8th, 2010: "Policy-wise, [a national renewable energy strategy] should be a no-brainer. To date, U.S. clean energy industries have been supported, if at all, by tax credits, which tend to come and go contingent on the political atmosphere and the mood of the Ways and Means Committee." 
con_2_1	A national renewable energy standard will increase electricity costs	 A national renewable energy standard will increase electricity costs Ronald Bailey. "Forcing Consumers to Buy Renewable Energy." Reason Foundation. July 13, 2010: "So will renewables soon be cost competitive? There are reasons to doubt they will be. Taking EIA projections with the requisite grain of salt, the agency’s Annual Energy Outlook for 2010 estimated the levelized costs [PDF] of various generation plants in 2016. Levelized costs include the cost of constructing a plant, the time required to construct a plant, the non-fuel costs of operating a plant, the fuel costs, the cost of financing, and the utilization of a plant. The levelized costs per megawatt hour are $100 for conventional coal power, rising to $129 for advanced coal with carbon capture and sequestration. On-shore wind costs are $149 per megawatt hour, and off-shore costs are $191. The cost of solar photovoltaic power is $396 per megawatt hour and solar thermal is $257. For what it’s worth, advanced nuclear comes in at $119 per megawatt hour. Crudely, these levelized costs suggest that substituting wind for conventional coal under a 20 percent mandate would boost electricity prices by 10 percent. Similarly substituting solar photovoltaic power would increase electricity prices by about 20 percent."
con_2_2	Renewable energy does little to increase energy independence	 Renewable energy does little to increase energy independence Jonathan DuHamel. "National Renewable Energy Standard Will Mean Higher Electricity Bills." Tuscon Citizen. September 30th, 2010: "Another hyped reason is to decrease our dependence on foreign oil, but the U.S. has abundant domestic resources of fossil fuels. The Obama regime, however, seems to be doing all it can to make those resources unavailable."
con_2_3	Renewable Electricity Standard equivalent to an energy tax	 Renewable Electricity Standard equivalent to an energy tax Jonathan DuHamel. "National Renewable Energy Standard Will Mean Higher Electricity Bills." Tuscon Citizen. September 30th, 2010: "National renewable energy standards for electricity will have the effect of a national energy tax which will raise rates on families and businesses, cause loss of jobs, and further depress the economy. What was that promise Obama made about taxes and the middle class? Renewable energy standards are just another rip-off of consumers and taxpayers by rent-seekers, lobbyists, and radical greens."
con_2_4	Renewable Energy Standard increases energy prices, kills jobs	 Renewable Energy Standard increases energy prices, kills jobs Karen Kerrigan. "Commentary: Renewable energy legislation would add to drain on small business." Washington Post. July 26th, 2010: "In response to challenging economic conditions, local Virginia retailer Barb Werner has cut costs to the bone, eaten every cost increase without raising prices and forgone her own salary to maintain her employees. Her shop, Black-Eyed Susan, on Church Street in Vienna, is known for its unique merchandise at reasonable prices. If energy costs go up, she says she will have to cut staff. Her margins only allow her to absorb so much. And she predicts that everyone she buys from -- mainly small U.S. manufacturers -- will be forced to raise their prices, too, which means she will be forced to raise hers and lose the competitive advantage she currently enjoys. Higher energy prices are one more cost burden she -- and all small-business owners -- would have to bear. 'It's a slap in the face,' she said. A comprehensive energy policy is critical for our nation, but it cannot come at the expense of the small-business sector -- the backbone of our economy. President Obama and congressional leaders say they want to help small businesses create jobs and grow, but the RES mandate along with other intrusive regulations that will raise costs are non-starters."
headline_3	States: Is a national standard better than state standards?
pro_3_1	Renewable energy standard unifies scattered state standards	 Renewable energy standard unifies scattered state standards "Nation needs a standard for renewable energy." The Denver Post Editorial. September 29th, 2010: "While more than 30 states have a renewable standard of some sort, some of them are lower than 15 percent, are voluntary and have later phase-in deadlines. A national standard would provide certainty for renewable energy researchers and businesses and prompt private investment in the area. While we don't support long-term subsidies to prop up renewable energy development, we think a national standard would provide an important kick-start as the nation moves to diversify its energy consumption portfolio."
pro_3_2	Utilities can go across state borders to get renewable energy.	Utilities can go across state borders to get renewable energy. A utility in one state can easily draw from renewable energy sources in other states if it has to, in order to satisfy its requirement to obtain 15% of its electricity from renewable sources by 2021. The standard is not, therefore, too onerous.
con_3_1	National standard punishes states with less renewable energy	 National standard punishes states with less renewable energy Karen Kerrigan. "Commentary: Renewable energy legislation would add to drain on small business." Washington Post. July 26th, 2010: "A federal renewable energy mandate would require that a percentage of a state's energy be produced from "renewable" sources. The federal government would arbitrarily decide what sources are considered 'renewable.' The mandate does not take geography into account and fails to consider that many states do not have access to affordable renewable energy sources. This means the legislation is inequitable; it will punish small-business owners in states where renewable sources are limited."
headline_4	Public opinion: Where does public opinion stand on this topic?
pro_4_1	US Renewable Electricity Standard is popular	 US Renewable Electricity Standard is popular David Roberts. "Does the RES stand a chance?" Grist. September 8th, 2010: "Is it popular? Any politician should be so popular. Last month in a Pew/National Journal poll a whopping 78 percent of respondents supported an RES, including 70 percent of Republicans and 77 percent of Independents. Requiring utilities to use more clean energy has been one of the most reliably popular energy policy options for years. The last few months have seen a stream of editorials, signed letters, and statements of support of the policy from prominent conservatives and industry groups."
pro_4_2	RES may compel utilities to pay for your extra solar power	 RES may compel utilities to pay for your extra solar power Susan Kramer. "The Good News About the Proposed Renewable Energy Standard." Clean Technica. September 25, 2010: "If you’re in the South and hoping that your electric utility may soon pay you to put solar on your own roof (as they do in the Green states like New Jersey) in order to meet mandated Renewable Energy Standards, you could soon be in luck."
con_4_1	Renewable electricity standard increases energy prices - unpopular.	Renewable electricity standard increases energy prices - unpopular. Forcing consumers to pay more for their electricity with a renewable electricity standard will always be unpopular. While many might support the general idea - in principle - of an RES, they would oppose it if they knew how much it will cost them, and they will certainly oppose it after having to live with it for a number of years.
con_4_2	15%-by-2021 RES is insufficient to liberals	 15%-by-2021 RES is insufficient to liberals Paul Tullis. "Why the Senate's Renewable Electricity Standard Stinks." Change.org. September 27, 2010: "The second reason to kill the bill is that it’s actually worse than nothing. As has been noted here previously, the U.S. already averages about 12 percent renewables; getting to 15 in the next 11 years is a foregone conclusion. The low standard could actually slow the development of clean energy."
