title	Oil sands
question	What are the pros and cons of extracting oil from "oil sands"?
headline_1	Energy security: Do oil sands improve energy security?
pro_1_1	Hydrocarbons required in forseeable future, including oil sands	 Hydrocarbons required in forseeable future, including oil sands Tom Huffaker. "The case for optimism: Some perspective on oil sands." San Francisco Chronicle. October 09, 2009: "It also can't be denied that for the foreseeable future, the world, California included, is going to require energy from hydrocarbons. Global oil demand continues to grow, because the rest of the world would like to live as well as we do in North America. We need to increase our use of renewable fuels, and we will, but the fact remains that we're going to require energy from all sources, and oil sands has an important role to play in the North American energy supply mix." 
pro_1_2	Better to import oil from Canadian sands than from corrupt regimes	 Better to import oil from Canadian sands than from corrupt regimes "Canada's energy industry. Tarred with the same brush." The Economist. Aug 5th 2010: "'A GOOD neighbour lends you a cup of sugar,' read an ad in the Washington Post last month. 'A great neighbour supplies you with 1.4 million barrels of oil a day.' Ed Stelmach, the premier of the energy-rich province of Alberta, certainly knows how to make the case for Canadian petroleum. Buying from Canada neither props up an authoritarian regime nor exposes the United States to political manipulation of its energy supply. Little wonder, then, that Canada is the biggest exporter of oil to America, with 22% of the total. The runners-up, Mexico, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela, have just 11-12% each. And the country’s potential seems limitless: Canada’s 179 billion barrels of oil and gas reserves rank second in the world."
pro_1_3	Oil sands are too economically important to just abandon them	 Oil sands are too economically important to just abandon them "Canada's energy industry. Tarred with the same brush." The Economist. Aug 5th 2010: "Energy, including natural gas, conventional oil and coal, makes up a quarter of Alberta’s $211 billion economy. The rest of the country benefits from service and supply contracts with energy companies, and from the government’s redistribution of Alberta’s wealth to poorer provinces."
con_1_1	Oil sands undermine long-term clean energy security	 Oil sands undermine long-term clean energy security "Tar Sands Invasion." Dirty Oil Sands. May 2010: "Major oil company and other tar sands oil interests are attacking climate and clean energy policies in the United States and elsewhere.  Concerned about their massive investments, tar sands oil interests are trying to undermine fuel standards, fuel purchasing provisions and other clean energy initiatives that would protect our climate, create green jobs and secure our future. Expansion of tar sands will undermine a U.S. transition to a clean energy economy."
con_1_2	Tar sands unnecessary if focus is placed on clean energy	 Tar sands unnecessary if focus is placed on clean energy "Tar Sands Invasion." Dirty Oil Sands. May 2010: "American Security Depends on Reducing Dependence on Oil. The best security policy for our nation and climate is to aggressively implement fuel efficiency and other measures that reduce oil dependency. These and other measures stand to reduce U.S. demand for oil by four million barrels per day by 2020 and ten million barrels per day by 2030, which would make expansion of tar sands unnecessary for U.S. fuel needs."
con_1_3	Nations can choose a clean energy future over tar sands	 Nations can choose a clean energy future over tar sands "Tar Sands Invasion." Dirty Oil Sands. May 2010: "As the world’s largest oil consumer, the United States has choices about its energy future. America currently consumes a quarter of the world’s oil supply. We must and can do better, and we have the technology to do it. A nation as innovative and motivated as the United States can find a way to maintain mobility, while at the same time acting to halt expansion of expensive and dirty fuels such as tar sands oil that cause global warming and a host of other environmental and health problems. Electric cars, renewable energy, environmentally sustainable biofuels, fuel efficiency, and smart growth are all positive solutions to meet our future energy needs."
con_1_4	Tar sands can't enhance energy security; too expensive, not enough	 Tar sands can't enhance energy security; too expensive, not enough "Tar Sands Invasion." Dirty Oil Sands. May 2010: "tar sands oil cannot enhance energy security in the United States because it is too expensive and there is not enough of it. 
headline_2	Energy source: Are oil sands a good/competitive energy source?
pro_2_1	The markets have already determined that oil sands are viable	 The markets have already determined that oil sands are viable There is no need to speculate about the viability of oil sands in the marketplace. Supply, demand, and pricing will flush out the question of its viability, and it already has to a great extent: millions of barrels of crude from oil sands in Canada are being sold in the US, Canada, and around the world. The proof is in the pudding, and clearly oil sands are doing very well. 
con_2_1	Oil sand extraction is far too costly to be sustainable.	Oil sand extraction is far too costly to be sustainable. Oil sand extraction requires washing oil off of sand with chemicals and water, and then refining it through much more lengthy and energy-intensive processes. This is very expensive, and is only profitable when oil is at a very high price.
con_2_2	Oil sands require too much water to be sustainable.	Oil sands require too much water to be sustainable. Oil sands require about 4 barrels of water for every one barrel extracted. This is far too much, is a strain on local water resources, is costly, consumes significant amount of energy in the piping of the water, and leaves polluted ponds behind.
con_2_3	Tar sands cannot compete with low-prices of OPEC	 Tar sands cannot compete with low-prices of OPEC "Tar Sands Invasion." Dirty Oil Sands. May 2010: "Producing tar sands oil will not break the power of OPEC, which controls the world oil market. Tar sands cannot compete in a world of low oil prices; in fact, oil from tar sands is among the most expensive anywhere."
con_2_4	Oil sands can't compete w/ cleaner, abundant, cheaper natural gas	 Oil sands can't compete w/ cleaner, abundant, cheaper natural gas Natural gas is considered to be the rising energy star of the 21st century. Oil sands will have a hard time competing with this. Natural gas is cheaper, more abundant, and is much cleaner. That it is cleaner will become particularly important as countries place a price on carbon. 
headline_3	Climate change: Are oil sands bad for climate change?
pro_3_1	Oilsands account for less than 1 percent of global emissions	 Oilsands account for less than 1 percent of global emissions In an op-ed in the Argus Leader, John Duff Erickson, professor emeritus at the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology, wrote: "It would be folly to halt oil sands production and the construction of pipelines that would carry Canadian oil to U.S. markets. Oil sands development accounts for less than 1 percent of global greenhouse-gas emissions."[1]
pro_3_2	Oil Sands emit only a fraction more than petroleum	 Oil Sands emit only a fraction more than petroleum In an op-ed in the Argus Leader, John Duff Erickson, professor emeritus at the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology, wrote: "Environmental groups claim that oil sands produce five to seven times the carbon emissions of conventional oil, but a study by Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a highly regarded consulting group, determined that oil sands emissions are only 5 percent to 15 percent higher than the average barrel of crude oil processed in the United States."[2]
pro_3_3	Oil sands will be used by some states no matter what	 Oil sands will be used by some states no matter what "Canada's energy industry. Tarred with the same brush." The Economist. Aug 5th 2010: "even if America does try to reduce its imports, China will be more than happy to take them. Chinese firms have already begun investing heavily in the sands."
con_3_1	Tar sands emit far more greenhouse-gases than even petroleum	 Tar sands emit far more greenhouse-gases than even petroleum According to America’s Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), producing Canadian tar-sands oil generates 82% more greenhouse-gas emissions than does the average barrel refined in the United States.[3]
con_3_2	Making oil sands as clean as petroleum is insufficient	 Making oil sands "as clean as petroleum" is insufficient John Podesta, head of Center for American Progress. June 2010 speech on oil sands: "Let me make a note on what the CO2 goal here seems to be, in light of this morning’s discussions. If developed countries need to reduce CO2 emissions by 80 percent by 2050, setting a goal of lowering oil sands emissions to come into line with conventional oil production is the wrong goal. The arrow is pointing in the wrong direction. Oil sands can’t simply be as good as conventional oil. We need to reduce fossil fuel use and accelerate the transition to cleaner technologies, in the transportation sector and elsewhere."
con_3_3	Tar sands worsen climate change; better to invest in clean energy	 Tar sands worsen climate change; better to invest in clean energy "Tar Sands Invasion." Dirty Oil Sands. May 2010: "Given the climate change risks associated with development of the tar sands and other highcarbon fuels, the best security policy for America is to invest in cleaner, low-carbon alternatives to fossil fuels."
con_3_4	Tar sands perpetuate oil dependencies, delay clean energy	 Tar sands perpetuate oil dependencies, delay clean energy "Tar Sands Invasion." Dirty Oil Sands. May 2010: "In America, oil and pipeline companies plan to build an extensive tar sands pipeline and refinery infrastructure that will continue U.S. dependence on this high-carbon fossil fuel for many decades to come. Tar sands infrastructure investment conflicts with American goals of stopping climate change and shifting the U.S. transportation sector to cleaner alternatives."
con_3_5	Oil sands are a symbol of addiction to oil	 Oil sands are a symbol of addiction to oil Drug addicts will scrape the bottom of the barrel, so-to-speak, looking for a fix. Oil sands are similar, representing the lengths we are willing to go to in order to meet our addiction to oil. 
con_3_6	Oil sands take more energy to extract, so emit more	 Oil sands take more energy to extract, so emit more "Tar Sands Invasion." Dirty Oil Sands. May 2010: "Because it requires large amounts of energy, production of synthetic crude oil from tar sands is estimated to release at least three times the greenhouse gas emissions per barrel as compared to production of conventional crude oil."
con_3_7	Significant gas is used/burnt to extract oil from sands	 Significant gas is used/burnt to extract oil from sands "Canada's energy industry. Tarred with the same brush." The Economist. Aug 5th 2010: "20% of Canada’s natural gas (a clean fuel) is used to produce oil (a dirty one)."
con_3_8	Forests are cleared for oil sands, destroying carbon sinks.	Forests are cleared for oil sands, destroying carbon sinks. Oil sands are often stripped in the production of oil sands, particularly in the boreal forests of Canada, where the largest tar sand fields exist. This eliminates important carbon sinks, forests and plant life that draws down carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and converts it into Oxygen. Destroying these forests furthers the effects of climate change. 
con_3_9	Oil sands help Canada far exceed Kyoto emissions limits	 Oil sands help Canada far exceed Kyoto emissions limits "Canada's energy industry. Tarred with the same brush." The Economist. Aug 5th 2010: "At the peak of the commodity boom in 2008, energy was Canada’s largest export. As a result, the sands have only been lightly regulated. Instead of being 6% below 1990 levels of greenhouse-gas emissions by 2012, its commitment under the Kyoto protocol, Canada will be 30% above."
con_3_10	Carbon sequestration cannot be relied on for oil sands	 Carbon sequestration cannot be relied on for oil sands 
headline_4	Local environment: Are oil sands safe for local environment?
pro_4_1	Oil sands have a contained environmental impact	 Oil sands have a contained environmental impact Tom Huffaker. "The case for optimism: Some perspective on oil sands." San Francisco Chronicle. October 09, 2009: "The region that has been mined [in Canada] is about 330 square miles; you could fit it inside the San Francisco metro area 10 times over. By contrast the Canadian boreal forest covers an area 12 times the size of the state of California. Even at full development potential, only 0.1 per cent of the Canadian boreal forest will be impacted by mining activities." 
pro_4_2	Reclamation limits local environmental damage of oil sands	 Reclamation limits local environmental damage of oil sands Tom Huffaker. "The case for optimism: Some perspective on oil sands." San Francisco Chronicle. October 09, 2009: "reclamation is continual (and mandatory by law, including bonded funds for this purpose held by the government) and approximately 40 square miles have already been reclaimed."
pro_4_3	Oil sand will be increasingly drilled for, not mined	 Oil sand will be increasingly drilled for, not mined Tom Huffaker. "The case for optimism: Some perspective on oil sands." San Francisco Chronicle. October 09, 2009: "Another missing piece of context is that although mining will provide the bulk of production over the near-term, most of the growth in oil sands development will come from drilling rather than mining projects, using innovative technologies with minimal surface impact and no tailings ponds."
con_4_1	Oil sands are one of the dirtiest fuels available	 Oil sands are one of the dirtiest fuels available Henry Waxman, chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, calls it “the dirtiest source of transportation fuel currently available”[4]
con_4_2	Washing tar from sands forms highly polluted ponds	 "Washing" tar from sands forms highly polluted ponds "Tar Sand Invasion." Dirty Oil Sands. May 2010: "In addition to its high carbon pollution costs, tar sands oil production requires two to five barrels of water for each barrel of tar sands extracted, has already created over 50 square miles of toxic waste ponds, threatens the health of downstream indigenous communities, and is likely to cause the loss of millions of migratory birds that nest in the forests and wetlands of the region."
con_4_3	Oil sand mining and rilling destroy pristine ecosystems	 Oil sand mining and rilling destroy pristine ecosystems "Tar Sands Invasion." Dirty Oil Sands.org. May 2010: "Canadian tar sands deposits are found primarily under Alberta’s Boreal forest and wetlands in an area about the size of Florida.1 In order to access them, millions of acres of pristine forests and wildlife habitat have to be strip-mined and drilled, destroying these areas."
con_4_4	Forests are often stripped in the production of oil sands	 Forests are often stripped in the production of oil sands "Canada's energy industry. Tarred with the same brush." The Economist. Aug 5th 2010: "Mining the sands also strips forest and creates vast ponds of toxic byproducts."
con_4_5	Oil sands disrupt/release important carbon reservoirs.	Oil sands disrupt/release important carbon reservoirs. Oil sands disrupt critical terrestrial carbon reservoirs in the peatlands of the Boreal forest.[5] In other words, it takes the carbon that would otherwise be tucked away under the ground, and puts it into the atmosphere.
con_4_6	Oil sands cannot be made clean in the future	 Oil sands cannot be made "clean" in the future 
headline_5	Health: Are oil sands bad for human health?
con_5_1	Oil sand extraction contributes to cases of cancer	 Oil sand extraction contributes to cases of cancer Ben Jervery. "The Moral Case Against Tar Sands." OnEarth. February 19, 2009: "The impact on local communities, mostly First Nation tribes like the Cree, is nothing short of appalling.  Visiting a Cree village and speaking to one of its Elders, Nikiforuk writes, 'MacDonald doesn't have much faith that industry or government will reclaim the toxic ponds that surround his home. About 90 percent of the water withdrawn from the Athabasca River for mining ends up behind massive tailings dams or dykes...All these ponds contain polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), naphthenic acids, heavy metals, salts, and bitumen.'  The tailings are leaking into the Athabasca too, poisoning the indiginous fish that locals have long relied on for food. [...] In some heartbreaking interviews with Canadian tar sands activist MacDonald Stainsby, local residents reveal that cancer rates in their communities are up, wildlife is disappearing, and river levels are dropping constantly."
con_5_2	Oil sands worsen local air quality	 Oil sands worsen local air quality "Dirty Oil, Dirty Air: Ottawa,s broken pollution promise." Environmental Defense: "There has been a recent spike in air pollution 'exceedances' in the tar sands region from 47 in 2004 to 1,556 in 2009. "Exceedances" are counted when air monitoring stations in the tar sands region show actual air pollution to be higher than targets set by the Alberta government."
headline_6	Local communities: What is the local impact of oil sands?
pro_6_1	Oil sands are too economically important to abandon	 Oil sands are too economically important to abandon "Canada's energy industry. Tarred with the same brush." The Economist. Aug 5th 2010: "Energy, including natural gas, conventional oil and coal, makes up a quarter of Alberta’s $211 billion economy. The rest of the country benefits from service and supply contracts with energy companies, and from the government’s redistribution of Alberta’s wealth to poorer provinces."
con_6_1	Oil sands threaten down-river communities	 Oil sands threaten down-river communities "Staying hooked on a dirty fuel." DirtyOilSands.org and the National Wildlife Federation. May 2010: "THREATENING DOWNRIVER COMMUNITIES Scientists already have catalogued human health problems among the First Nations people who live downriver.9 Studies have raised alarms about increased cancer rates and autoimmune diseases. In the Fort Chipewyan First Nation, where subsistence hunting and fishing is still prevalent, hunters say they have noticed big changes in the game they harvest–including the fact that moose livers are enlarged and white-spotted."
headline_7	Courses of action: What actions can taken for pro or con sides?
con_7_1	Courses of action to be taken if opposing oil sands	 Courses of action to be taken if opposing oil sands From "Tar Sands Invasion." Dirty Oil Sands. May 2010:
