title	Birthright citizenship for children of illegal immigrants
question	
headline_1	Constitutionality: Does US Constitution provide for birthright citizenship?
pro_1_1	Supreme Court ruled 14th amendment protects birthright citizenship	 Supreme Court ruled 14th amendment protects birthright citizenship "EDITORIAL: Born in the USA: The flawed case against birthright citizenship." Chicago Tribune Editorial. August 15th, 2010: "The Supreme Court has given the clause an inclusive reading. In an 1898 case involving the U.S-born son of Chinese parents who were not citizens, it ruled that since his parents were not diplomats, he was an American citizen. In 1982, the court considered the claim that illegal immigrants are not subject to U.S. jurisdiction and responded: 'We reject this argument.'"
pro_1_2	Birthright citizenship is long-standing common law doctrine	 Birthright citizenship is long-standing common law doctrine James C. Ho. "Defining 'American': Birthright Citizenship and the Original Understanding of the 14th Amendment." Immigration Policy Center: "The Citizenship Clause was no legal innovation. It simply restored the longstanding English common law doctrine of jus soli, or citizenship by place of birth. Although the doctrine was initially embraced in early American jurisprudence, the U.S. Supreme Court abrogated jus soli in its infamous Dred Scott decision, denying birthright citizen ship to the descendents of slaves. Congress approved the Citizenship Clause to overrule Dred Scott and elevate jus soli to the status of constitutional law."
pro_1_3	Jurisdiction clause in 14th applies to children of undocumented	 "Jurisdiction clause" in 14th applies to children of undocumented James C. Ho. "Defining 'American': Birthright Citizenship and the Original Understanding of the 14th Amendment." Immigration Policy Center: "when we speak of a person who is subject to our jurisdiction, we do not limit ourselves to only those who have sworn allegiance to the U.S. [...] aliens cannot immunize themselves from U.S. law by entering our country in violation of Title 8. Indeed, illegal aliens are such because they are subject to U.S. law. Accordingly, the text of the Citizen ship Clause plainly guarantees birthright citizenship to the U.S.-born children of all persons subject to U.S. sovereign authority and laws. The clause thus covers the vast majority of lawful and unlawful aliens." 
pro_1_4	14th amendment was written at a different time, but still applies	 14th amendment was written at a different time, but still applies
pro_1_5	Native American kids have a state; undocumented ones don't	 Native American kids have a state; undocumented ones don't 
con_1_1	Writers of 14th amendment did not want birthright citizenship for illegals	 Writers of 14th amendment did not want birthright citizenship for illegals "George F. Will: Citizenship a birthright?" Washington Post. March 28th, 2010: "If those who wrote and ratified the 14th Amendment had imagined laws restricting immigration -- and had anticipated huge waves of illegal immigration -- is it reasonable to presume they would have wanted to provide the reward of citizenship to the children of the violators of those laws? Surely not."
con_1_2	Birthright citizenship outdated; came from period of less migration	 Birthright citizenship outdated; came from period of less migration Eric Zorn. "Amendment dreamin' and the issue of birthright citizenship." Chicago Tribune. August 12th, 2010: "The guarantee of birthright citizenship (to all but the children of foreign diplomats) in the 14th Amendment came about in an era when our borders were wide open and international travel was considerably more difficult. When a family came here, it was a reasonable assumption that they intended to throw down roots and stay."
con_1_3	Birthright citizenship lacks critical government consent	 Birthright citizenship lacks critical government consent "George F. Will: Citizenship a birthright?" The Commercial Appeal. March 28th, 2010: "in 1884 the Supreme Court held that children born to Indian parents were not born "subject to" U.S. jurisdiction because, among other reasons, the person so born could not change his status by his "own will without the action or assent of the United States." And "no one can become a citizen of a nation without its consent." Graglia says this decision "seemed to establish" that U.S. citizenship is "a consensual relation, requiring the consent of the United States." So: "This would clearly settle the question of birthright citizenship for children of illegal aliens. There cannot be a more total or forceful denial of consent to a person's citizenship than to make the source of that person's presence in the nation illegal."
con_1_4	Native American kids not citizens, why should kids of illegals be?	 Native American kids not citizens, why should kids of illegals be? Native American babies do not receive American citizenship when they are born. The same rule should apply to illegal aliens, as they are equally without a claim to US citizenship.
headline_2	American tradition: Is birthright citizenship consistent with US traditions?
pro_2_1	14th amendment has great legacy; don't change it to end birthright	 14th amendment has great legacy; don't change it to end birthright Former Bush and McCain strategist Mark McKinnon said to Politico: “The 14th Amendment is a great legacy of the Republican Party. It is a shame and an embarrassment that the GOP now wants to amend it for starkly political reasons."[1]
pro_2_2	Birthright part of American tradition of inclusiveness and assimilation	 Birthright part of American tradition of inclusiveness and assimilation "Go back where you didn't come from." Economist.com. Aug 12th 2010: "Americans tend to boast too often about aspects of American society that aren't really exceptional or admirable, but the American model of immigrant assimilation is truly something to boast of. Few countries in the world assimilate immigrants as well as we do. (Canada and Australia come to mind.) There's no reason to tamper with a machine that works. We need to address the problem of undocumented aliens in this country by offering a pathway to legal residency, by reducing economic disparities with our southern neighbours, and by doing more to control our southern border. But denying citizenship to children born in the United States shouldn't be part of that solution, especially not when there are so darn many of them."
con_2_1	Birthright citizenship for illegals is bad loophole	 Birthright citizenship for illegals is bad loophole Ira Mehlman of the Federation of American Immigration Reform, which backs Deal’s proposal: "Most Americans feel it doesn’t make any sense for people to come into the country illegally, give birth and have a new U.S. citizen."[2]
con_2_2	Birthright citizenship is offensive to legitimate immigrants.	Birthright citizenship is offensive to legitimate immigrants. When a person desperately wants to come to America, and must wait in line, or who was born in another country a week or a month before moving to America, it seems offensive that they are less deserving of citizenship than the child of someone who came illegally. 
con_2_3	Citizenship is something that should be earned.	Citizenship is something that should be earned. Citizenship is about much more than where you were born. It is about your willingness to contribute, engage in a society, perhaps learn the prominent language of that society, and more. The idea that citizenship can be acquired by the mere fact of being born in the United States seems to cheapen this social compact.
headline_3	Incentives: Does birthright incentivize good or bad immigration behavior?
pro_3_1	Undocumented come to US for opportunities, not for birthright citizenship	 Undocumented come to US for opportunities, not for birthright citizenship "Go back where you didn't come from." Economist.com. Aug 12th 2010: "Denying American citizenship to the American-born children of illegal immigrants may have a slight dissuasive effect on illegal immigration, but the effect will be small compared to the overwhelming incentive for illegal immigration, which is the far greater economic opportunities available in the United States compared to Mexico or Central America."
pro_3_2	Illegals have incentive to have babies w/o birthright citizenship	 Illegals have incentive to have babies w/o birthright citizenship  "Go back where you didn't come from." Economist.com. Aug 12th 2010: "Denying American citizenship to the American-born children of illegal immigrants may have a slight dissuasive effect [...] on births to illegal immigrants already in the United States, but that effect, too, will be slight compared to the overwhelming incentive for having babies, which is pretty much hard-wired into our systems, for good or ill. I'd be surprised if revoking birthright citizenship led the number of babies born to illegal immigrants in the United States to fall from 8% to 7% of total births. That leaves you with a whole lot of American-born non-citizens."
pro_3_3	Ending birthright citizenship would not encourage illegals to leave	 Ending birthright citizenship would not encourage illegals to leave "EDITORIAL: Born in the USA: The flawed case against birthright citizenship." Chicago Tribune Editorial. August 15th, 2010: "Nor would depriving their American-born children of citizenship induce many of them to leave. All it would do is create a permanent class of dispossessed innocents living in the shadows."
con_3_1	Birthright citizenship creates incentive for birthright tourism	 Birthright citizenship creates incentive for birthright tourism Lindsay Graham: "They come here to drop a child. It's called drop and leave. To have a child in America, they cross the border, they go to the emergency room, have a child, and that child is automatically an American citizen. That shouldn't be the case. That attracts people here for all the wrong reasons."[3] 
con_3_2	Birthright citizenship incentivizes anchor babies for families	 Birthright citizenship incentivizes "anchor babies" for families Howard Sutherland. "Citizen Hamdi: The Case Against Birthright Citizenship." Minnesotans for Sustainability. September 27, 2004: "Birthright citizenship lures illegal aliens, who know a U.S.-born child is, thanks to American immigration law’s family-reunification bias, an anchor baby who will be able to sponsor his relatives for residence and citizenship. They also know that anchor babies’ mothers are not deported. In 1993, the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors reported that two-thirds of births in L.A. County hospitals were to illegal aliens, mostly Mexicans. Conservative estimates of illegal-alien births here, assuming an illegal alien population of between 8.7 and 11 million, run from 287,000 to 363,000 per year."
headline_4	Morality to children: Is birthright citizenship moral to children of illegals?
pro_4_1	Ending birthright citizenship would make millions of children nation-less	 Ending birthright citizenship would make millions of children nation-less If a child is born in the United States and then goes back to another country, it may be one thing. But, the vast majority are born in the United States and remain, in effect relinquishing their relationship with - and any prospect for citizenship with - the nation of their parents. Their only national affiliation on earth is to the soil upon which they were born: the United States. Denying them this claim would make them into citizenshipless nomads. 
pro_4_2	Ending birthright citizenship creates an underclass in America	 Ending birthright citizenship creates an underclass in America Timothy Lee. "Birthright Citizenship and Symbolism." Bottom-up Blog of Timothy Lee. August 10th, 2010: "There’s nothing symbolic about birthright citizenship. Each year, thousands of Americans are born to undocumented immigrants. Birthright citizenship guarantees that when they grow up, they’ll enjoy the same freedoms that the children of American citizens do. Ending birthright citizenship means that, instead, they’ll be forced to live underground in the country they call home. This isn’t an 'act of symbolic violence against hard-won American ideals of equality.' It’s a sacrifice of the actual freedom and equality of actual human beings who will be born on American soil over the coming decade."
pro_4_3	Children of illegals should not be punished for parents' crime	 Children of illegals should not be punished for parents' crime 
pro_4_4	Children should be made into good Americans, not made illegal	 Children should be made into good Americans, not made illegal 
con_4_1	Illegal behavior of parents should not be rewarded.	Illegal behavior of parents should not be rewarded. While it is true that denying the child of an illegal immigrant birthright citizenship is harmful to the child, it is also true that giving them birthright citizenship rewards a mother for having willfully broken US law. Such a reward is unjust and unfair, and undermines the US rule of law. So, this is not about punishing children, it is about not rewarding illegal behavior. 
con_4_2	Illegal immigrant parents are to blame for having children abroad.	Illegal immigrant parents are to blame for having children abroad. Illegal immigrant parents, not the United States government, are to blame for bringing immigrating illegally and deciding to give birth to a child in the United States. The consequences to their children are a result of their folly, not of the government for deciding to end birthright citizenship.
con_4_3	Ending birthright citizenship withdraws something child never deserved.	Ending birthright citizenship withdraws something child never deserved. While withdrawing birthright citizenship may harm children, it is important to understand that the children of illegals never had a legitimate claim to citizenship and, thus, to avoiding these harms. 
con_4_4	The state is not responsible for foreign children.	The state is not responsible for foreign children. The state is not responsible for the children of foreign citizens living abroad. Why should it be responsible for the children of illegal aliens (also foreign citizens) residing in the United States? The state has no moral obligation to these individuals, and particularly not to provide them with citizenship.
headline_5	Amend/reinterpret? Does 14th need amending or reinterpretation to end birthright?
pro_5_1	Ending birthright requires amending 14th, not just reinterpreting it	 Ending birthright requires amending 14th, not just reinterpreting it "EDITORIAL: Born in the USA: The flawed case against birthright citizenship." Poten and Partners. August 15th, 2010: "[Given the Supreme Court's past inclusive rulings on birthright citizenship,] it's not impossible that the court, in light of the unprecedented volume of illegal immigration, could change its mind. But it's a long shot. Any effort to repeal birthright citizenship probably has to aim at amending the Constitution, not reinterpreting it." This is a general knock against attempting to end birthright citizenship, because it would mean taking the dramatic and highly unlikely step of amending the constitution, which requires two-thirds majority support in Congress and three-forths support from states. 
pro_5_2	Birthright citizenship can be conditioned on genuine connection to US	 Birthright citizenship can be conditioned on "genuine connection" to US Peter Schuck. "Birthright of a nation." New York Times. August 13, 2010: "Fortunately, these strongly competing values [in the debate over birthright citizenship], combined with the notion of mutual-consent citizenship, suggest a solution: condition the citizenship of such children on having what international law terms a “genuine connection” to American society. This is already a practice in some European countries, where laws requiring blood ties to existing citizens have been relaxed to give birthright citizenship to children of illegal immigrants who have lived in the country for some time — Britain, for example, requires 10 years and no long absences from the country. Congress should do likewise, perhaps conditioning birthright citizenship on a certain number of years of education in American schools; such children could apply for citizenship at, say, age 10. The children would become citizens retroactively, regardless of their parents’ status. Other aspects of the larger immigration debate would continue, of course. But such a principled yet pragmatic solution to the birthright citizenship question could point the way toward common ground on immigration reform."
con_5_1	14th amendment need not be amended, just reinterpreted	 14th amendment need not be amended, just reinterpreted "George F. Will: Citizenship a birthright?" The Commercial Appeal. March 28th, 2010: "To end the practice of "birthright citizenship," all that is required is to correct the misinterpretation of that amendment's first sentence: 'All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the state wherein they reside.' From these words has flowed the practice of conferring citizenship on children born here to illegal immigrants. [...] The Civil Rights Act of 1866 begins with language from which the 14th Amendment's Citizenship Clause is derived: 'All persons born in the United States, and not subject to any foreign power, excluding Indians not taxed, are hereby declared to be citizens of the United States.' (Emphasis added.) The explicit exclusion of Indians from birthright citizenship was not repeated in the 14th Amendment because it was considered unnecessary. Although Indians were at least partially subject to U.S. jurisdiction, they owed allegiance to their tribes, not the United States. This reasoning -- divided allegiance -- applies equally to exclude the children of resident aliens, legal as well as illegal, from birthright citizenship. Indeed, today's regulations issued by the departments of Homeland Security and Justice stipulate."
headline_6	Problems: Is birthright a real problem? Will ending it cause problems?
pro_6_1	Birthright citizenship is too small of a problem to end it	 Birthright citizenship is too small of a problem to end it  James Joyner at Outside the Beltway: "Too Small a Problem to Justify Tinkering with the Constitution. It's not as if the birthright citizenship policy is the chief draw for illegal immigration in this country, or that we'd see any significant decrease in illegal border crossings if we changed the policy."[5]
pro_6_2	Ending birthright citizenship would increase # of undocumented	 Ending birthright citizenship would increase # of undocumented Peter Schuck. "Birthright of a nation." New York Times. August 13, 2010: "because more than a third of undocumented parents have a least one American child, ending birthright citizenship would greatly increase the number of undocumented people in the country."
pro_6_3	Without citizenship, a generation will grow without respect for laws	 Without citizenship, a generation will grow without respect for laws "A futile effort to strip birthright citizenship." The Denver Post Editorial. August 13th, 2010: "in countries like Japan, which for decades didn't recognize as citizens Korean immigrants who toiled there, children of immigrants struggled with second-class status in school and society in ways that led to significant problems. It's easy to see why. A child born into a land that then refuses to accept or recognize him as one of its own is a child without a country. And when a child's home country won't accept his right to be there, it undermines that individual's loyalty to its laws and mores."
con_6_1	Illegals account for disproportionate # of births; it's a problem	 Illegals account for disproportionate # of births; it's a problem Peter Schuck. "Birthright of a nation." New York Times. August 13, 2010: "With a new study showing that undocumented mothers account for a disproportionate number of births, even some Democrats might find it hard to stand opposed to altering the citizenship clause."
con_6_2	Birthright citizenship exacerbates dilemmas around illegal immigration.	Birthright citizenship exacerbates dilemmas around illegal immigration. Because illegal immigrants have the power to procreate in the United States and to bring new citizens into the union, they exacerbate the concerns of immigrants that feel they are being put at a disadvantage. 
headline_7	Anti-immigrant sentiments: Does birthright citizenship lower or worsen these feelings?
pro_7_1	Ending birthright citizenship will not lower opposition to immigration	 Ending birthright citizenship will not lower opposition to immigration "Go back where you didn't come from." Economist.com. Aug 12th 2010: "A while back Will Wilkinson proposed that denying citizenship to American-born children of illegal immigrants might reduce public opposition to a guest-worker programme and thus increase legal, temporary immigration and help integrate the North American labour market. I'm afraid I find that argument a bit of a libertarian hothouse flower. Like Timothy B. Lee, I doubt that denying birthright citizenship would do anything to lessen opposition to legal temporary immigration from Mexico; rather, I think it would chiefly serve to deny citizenship to a lot of kids."
pro_7_2	Republicans want to end birthright citz. to tap anti-immigrant vote	 Republicans want to end birthright citz. to tap anti-immigrant vote Alvaro Huerta of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles said his organization opposes Deal’s proposal and is girding for a battle for public opinion: "This is red meat for conservatives. They throw out these issues they know aren’t winning issues, and they create an environment of anti-immigrant sentiment. We need to do better job of educating people why it’s wrong."[6]
pro_7_3	Past efforts to end birthright citizenship relied on xenophobia	 Past efforts to end birthright citizenship relied on xenophobia Greg Robinson. "Repealing Birthright Citizenship Wasn't a Good Idea Back in the Forties Either." History News Network. August 16th, 2010: "during 1942-43 California nativists sought to use wartime anti-Japanese public sentiment to abolish universal birthright citizenship.  Their arguments revealed a fundamental motivation of white supremacy, and the ACLU and NAACP recognized the implications.  While today racial equality is widely accepted, and public anxieties about immigration no longer center on Asians, it is worth remembering why the principle of birthright citizenship is valuable and the consequences of abolishing it unpredictable."
headline_8	Internationally: What are the policies internationally? How does it matter?
pro_8_1	America should be proud of its openness and birthright citizenship.	America should be proud of its openness and birthright citizenship. "We should be proud that we're nearly alone in the advanced world in being so welcoming toward immigrants and the contributions of immigrant culture. We should not, as proponents suggest, look enviously upon other nations that have pulled up the drawbridge and doubt our long-standing commitment to strength through assimilation."
pro_8_2	Without birthright citizenship, countries foster underclass	 Without birthright citizenship, countries foster underclass "A futile effort to strip birthright citizenship." The Denver Post Editorial. August 13th, 2010: "in countries like Japan, which for decades didn't recognize as citizens Korean immigrants who toiled there, children of immigrants struggled with second-class status in school and society in ways that led to significant problems. It's easy to see why. A child born into a land that then refuses to accept or recognize him as one of its own is a child without a country. And when a child's home country won't accept his right to be there, it undermines that individual's loyalty to its laws and mores."
con_8_1	Not many countries in the world have birthright citizenship	 Not many countries in the world have birthright citizenship Eric Zorn. "Amendment dreamin' and the issue of birthright citizenship." Chicago Tribune. August 12th, 2010: "The birthright citizenship question, for instance, asks us to consider not only the practical implications of the policy, but also what our country stands for in the world. We are, after all, as proponents of an amendment point out, one of just a handful of industrialized nations (Canada is another) that confer automatic citizenship at birth, regardless of the naturalization or even legal status of the parents."
headline_9	Politics: Is supporting birthright citizenship good politics?
pro_9_1	Opponents of birthright citizenship alienate important Hispanic vote	 Opponents of birthright citizenship alienate important Hispanic vote Linda Chavez. "The Case For Birthright Citizenship." Wall Street Journal. August 11th, 2010: "Repealing birthright citizenship is a terrible idea. It will unquestionably jeopardize the electoral future of the GOP by alienating Hispanics—the largest minority and fastest-growing segment of the U.S. population. More importantly, ending birthright citizenship would fundamentally change what it means to be an American."
pro_9_2	Ending birthright citizenship distracts from real immigration reform	 Ending birthright citizenship distracts from real immigration reform "A futile effort to strip birthright citizenship." The Denver Post Editorial. August 13th, 2010: "We've argued for a serious-minded debate that leads to the vastly difficult job of securing the border, sanctioning employers who hire illegals and creating just and workable remedies for the 11 million illegal immigrants already here. Given that those goals have evaded our national representatives and led to the dispute between the Obama administration and the state of Arizona, we would hope Congress would refocus its efforts. Many other states are lining up to follow Arizona's lead, so it would seem the pressure already exists to spur Congress to action. Should such action emerge, we can't see how also taking on the 14th Amendment could possibly be a productive use of lawmakers' time."
headline_10	Public opinion:
con_10_1	A majority of Americans seem to oppose birthright citizenship.	A majority of Americans seem to oppose birthright citizenship. Rasmussen took a poll in June of 2010, asking people if they thought children of illegal immigrants should have citizenship. Fifty-eight percent said no and only 33 percent said yes.[7]
