title	Democrats vs. Republicans
question	Which party should you belong to: Democratic or Republican?
headline_1	Progress vs. tradition
pro_1_1	Democrats stand for social progress.	Democrats stand for social progress. Democrats tend to stand for "progress" in society, development, positive change, modernity, a living and evolving constitution, increased immigration and integration, new and innovative government programs.   
pro_1_2	Dems are optimistic about progress as a society	 Dems are optimistic about progress as a society Oliver Willis. "Oh. That's why I'm a democrat." Huffington Post. September 8th, 2008: "The Democratic party, for better or worse, believes in a Frank Capra/Jimmy Stewart view of the world. It says time and time again that through our collective might we can improve the nation, and as a byproduct the world. It is optimistic to the point of being almost corny. The party looks as the world as it is, and says 'Gosh darn it everyone, let's roll up our sleeves and clean up this mess.' It is no coincidence that the current leader of the party, Barack Obama, is the sort of guy you can imagine saying 'by golly' and not in an ironic way. [...] By contrast to the Democratic sunshine, the Republican party is night. Their view of the world is one in which everything is just a shade of negative, and that is the cold heart underlying the cynicism of speakers like Sarah Palin, Rudy Giuliani, and Mitt Romney. They see a world of despair and depression and they wallow in it. The Republican party and the conservative movement that supports it is all about being the snarky guy in the corner playing the angles and making a buck off the foibles and failures of others. For a few it promises the spoils of war - both ideological and real war - but for the rest it just offers a way of wallowing in darkness without any optimistic movement towards a better day."
con_1_1	Republicans represent traditional values.	Republicans represent traditional values. The social philosophy of the Republican Party could be summarized as 'traditional'.
con_1_2	Conserving freedoms is essential to societal progress.	Conserving freedoms is essential to societal progress. Republicans are conservative in the sense that they believe in preserving freedoms. And, these freedoms are essential to societal progress. This is particularly true in the economy, where it is necessary that individuals have maximum freedom to engage in commerce without heavy regulation and without heavy taxation. These and other conservative freedoms are what truly allow for the societal progress that Democrats claim to value.
con_1_3	Republicans see no contradiction between traditions and progress.	Republicans see no contradiction between traditions and progress. Republicans do not see a contradiction in their desire to maintain family values and social traditions while at the same time making progress in society, particularly economic progress. Traditional values that favor discipline and independence, for example, foster entrepreneurship and economic growth. Family values, in addition, help fulfill individuals so that they can lead stable and productive lives. All of these things are key to social and economic stability and progress.
con_1_4	Reps preserve right traditions, while accepting new ideas.	Reps preserve right traditions, while accepting new ideas. Republican Party Oath: "I believe we must retain those principles worth retaining, yet always be receptive to new ideas with an outlook broad enough to accommodate thoughtful change and varying points of view."
con_1_5	Government is not the driver of progress; individuals are.	Government is not the driver of progress; individuals are. Progressivism seems to contend that government is responsible for advancing society. But, it's individuals working independently and freely in association that are the true innovators and advancers of society.
headline_2	Morality
headline_3	Individualism
pro_3_1	Dems appreciate collective interdependence in society.	Dems appreciate collective interdependence in society. Republicans are all about the individual, protecting the individual from other people, and ensuring that the individual need not be burdened by collective issues surrounding them in society, nor the tax burdens that might be associated with dealing with these problems. But, this under-appreciates how we are connected to each other in such an intimate way; where an individual's success, in an economy, is dependent on the success and demand coming from other individuals in a society. Where someone's own education is dependent on the society that fosters it, and the education of those individuals around them. Where someone's health and safety are dependent on the sanitation, police forces, and social services available.
pro_3_2	Reps by govt, but forget it is of, by, for the people.	Reps by govt, but forget it is of, by, for the people. Republicans often bash government and celebrate the individual over government, as if we don't live in a democracy, where government is of, by, and for the people. In a democracy, the government is not an oppressive monolithic figure. Instead, it is composed of elected officials and is, therefore, controlled and directed by the will of the people. To bash government is, therefore, to bash the citizens behind it.  
con_3_1	Republicans believe in power of individual over govt	 Republicans believe in power of individual over govt Republican Party Oath: "I believe that good government is based on the individual and that each person’s ability, dignity, freedom and responsibility must be honoured and recognised. I believe that free enterprise and encouragement of individual initiative and incentive have given this nation an economic system second to none."[1]
headline_4	Limited government
pro_4_1	Republicans are too suspicious and critical of government	 Republicans are too suspicious and critical of government GovernmentIsGood.com: "Why a website defending government?  Because, like many Americans, I am tired of the government bashing that is constantly coming from the political right.  For decades conservatives have been demonizing government and not enough has been done to defend it.  Ever since Ronald Reagan declared in 1981 that 'Government is not a solution to our problem, government is the problem,' Republicans have been waging a political war against this institution.  Their core message:  the free market is good and government is bad. [...] Blithely ignoring anything good about government, conservatives have conducted a relentless smear campaign against this institution, portraying it as wasteful, ineffective, corrupt, oppressive, and bad for business.  And wherever they have been in power, Republican officials have pursued an anti-government agenda of slashing taxes, cutting social programs, and rolling back regulations. 'Smaller government' has been the conservative mantra – except of course for the ever-growing expenditures for defense and national security."
pro_4_2	Govt is often only thing big enough to take on biggest challenges	 Govt is often only thing big enough to take on biggest challenges GovernmentIsGood.com: "more energetic government is necessary in a whole range of areas in our society, not just in the financial sector. The anti-government philosophy of deregulation has not only proved a disaster for the financial system, but also for food safety, energy policy, and environmental protection. And cutting back taxes has led to school budgets being slashed, public safety workers being laid off, poor children being denied medical care, and bridges and roads falling into dangerous disrepair. The election of Barack Obama signaled that many Americans were beginning to realize that government is not the problem; it is actually the only solution to most of the pressing problems we face as a nation – including infrastructure decay, rising unemployment, global warming, and a worsening health care crisis."
pro_4_3	Robust government has been an amazing force for good	 Robust government has been an amazing force for good GovernmentIsGood.com: "But what exactly does it mean to say that government is good? It means that, on balance, government programs have a very positive impact on the lives of all Americans – that government has been a powerful force for good in our society. It is not an exaggeration to say that a good portion of the improvement in the quality of Americans’ lives during the last 100 years has been due to the efforts of our federal, state, and local governments. Consider, for instance, the wide variety of vital roles and functions that big government plays in our society. Things like providing roads and sewers and other essential infrastructure facilities, preventing economic depressions, eliminating horrible diseases like polio and smallpox, ensuring drinkable water and breathable air, dispensing justice, providing retirement security, preventing business abuses, sponsoring stunning scientific breakthroughs, feeding the hungry, recalling unsafe products, educating our children, reducing workplace injuries and deaths, responding to disasters and emergencies, preventing crime, protecting civil liberties, rescuing endangered species, ensuring the safety of drugs, guarding our national security, caring for the elderly, and so on."
pro_4_4	Govt makes longer-term investments than free markets	 Govt makes longer-term investments than free markets Mark Pash, CFP with Brad Parker. "Progessive Economic Principles: Creating a quality economy." Progressive Economics: "There is the obsession with immediate - short-term - maximization of profits - “The Quick Buck.” Private capital and management are constantly expecting relatively quick and high rates of return. Government capital is more long-term and not profit oriented, so it works more for the benefit of society, including business. We see this clearly in the investments in infrastructure, education, research and other necessary projects. Government regulations and tax policies should always encourage more long range planning in the private sector."
pro_4_5	Dems focus on regulating businesses, protecting consumers	 Dems focus on regulating businesses, protecting consumers "Democrats vs. Republicans: What DO they believe?." OnTheIssues. 2000: "A liberal would say that a proper role for government is to regulate and oversee the economy. Liberals say it's proper for government to ensure that companies do the right thing (such as pay minimum wages), and to ensure that people act responsibly in their finances (such as requiring contributions to retirement savings)."
pro_4_6	Republican de-regulation jeopardizes citizens and consumers	 Republican de-regulation jeopardizes citizens and consumers 
pro_4_7	Dems believe in bigger govt at federal and state level	 Dems believe in bigger govt at federal and state level 
pro_4_8	Difference between disliking party policies and govt	 Difference between disliking party policies and govt 
pro_4_9	Difference between disliking waste and disliking government	 Difference between disliking waste and disliking government 
pro_4_10	Government waste is much smaller than Republicans allege	 Government waste is much smaller than Republicans allege
pro_4_11	Govt cuts cause layoffs, degraded bridges, closed libraries etc	 Govt cuts cause layoffs, degraded bridges, closed libraries etc   
pro_4_12	Republicans radically advocate eliminating key regs, progs, depts	 Republicans radically advocate eliminating key regs, progs, depts 
pro_4_13	Strong govt programs are more popular than Reps allege	 Strong govt programs are more popular than Reps allege 
con_4_1	Reps believe govt should only do things citizens/comps can't	 Reps believe govt should only do things citizens/comps can't Republican Party Oath: "I believe that the proper function of government is to do for the people those things that have to be done but cannot be done, or cannot be done as well by individuals, and that the most effective government is government closest to the people."[3]
con_4_2	Republicans believe the best govt governs the least	  Republicans believe the best govt governs the least This phrase was popularized during the Reagan administration to define a key belief of the Republican party: the best government is the one that governs the least.
con_4_3	Big govt means more special interests in govt	 Big govt means more special interests in govt Woodrow Wilson noted the dangers of too much government: “If the government is to tell big business men how to run their business, then don’t you see that big business men have to get closer to the government even than they are now?”[4]
con_4_4	Govt of, by, for the people is still a burden on people.	Govt of, by, for the people is still a burden on people. While it may be true that, in a democracy, government is of, by, for the people, it should also be recognized that the bigger the government gets, and the more employees it has, the more taxpayer money it expends. While it may be trying to do "the will of the people", it inadvertently burdens and harms the people in the process. 
headline_5	Social justice:
pro_5_1	Dems believe in ensuring equal opportunity through social programs	 Dems believe in ensuring equal opportunity through social programs Paul Shlesinger. "Democrat vs. Republican: Political philosophies." Helium: "They believe that the role of the Federal government is to ensure equality.  This which translates into support for tax increases, particularly on the wealthy and big businesses, which can be used by the government to fund social programs designed to help the poor and middle class.  Labor unions and minority groups are often attracted to the party based on its fiscal philosophy prompting equality."
pro_5_2	Democrats believe public good is paramount	 Democrats believe public good is paramount "Liberal Philosophy, Conservative Philosophy and the Great American Center." OneMind. May 21st, 2010: "Faced with a seemingly irreconcilable conflict between the general welfare and the good of the individual, liberals will tend to support the public good and conservatives will tend to favor the individual’s rights and position."
con_5_1	Republicans believe fairness comes from unregulated competition	 Republicans believe fairness comes from unregulated competition "Liberal Philosophy, Conservative Philosophy and the Great American Center." OneMind. May 21st, 2010: "Conservatives believe that fairness derives better from an unregulated and freely competitive society."
con_5_2	Republicans believe individual rights are paramount	 Republicans believe individual rights are paramount "Liberal Philosophy, Conservative Philosophy and the Great American Center." OneMind. May 21st, 2010: "Faced with a seemingly irreconcilable conflict between the general welfare and the good of the individual, liberals will tend to support the public good and conservatives will tend to favor the individual’s rights and position."
con_5_3	Republicans believe in equality of opportunity, not outcomes	 Republicans believe in equality of opportunity, not outcomes Republicans oppose wealth redistribution, or any efforts to equalize outcomes among individuals. They do, however, believe that all individuals should have an equal opportunity from the day they are born till the day the die, an equal right to succeed. 
headline_6	Welfare
pro_6_1	Republicans lack compassion for the disadvantaged	 Republicans lack compassion for the disadvantaged David Carlin. "Why I'm Not a Republican." Inside Catholic. September 6th, 2008: "4. Democrats, I concede, put too much self-congratulatory stress on the "compassion" they feel for underdogs. Many underdogs would be better off if, instead of being the "beneficiaries" of compassion, they were told that they live in a relentlessly competitive society and that they'd better get a grip on themselves if they don't want to remain at the bottom of the league. Nonetheless, compassion for the underdog is a good thing, and many Republicans, I fear, have far too little of it. I am reminded of this almost every time I hear Rush Limbaugh on the radio: Limbaugh makes me laugh, but he also makes me cringe."
pro_6_2	Democrats to help the most disadvantaged	 Democrats to help the most disadvantaged Valerie Smith. "I'm a Democrat because..." On Being Democrat Blog. June 13th, 2005: "I'm a Democrat because I believe that we have to help the least among us. If that's healthcare for children, the elderly or the poor, if that's education for people who's family can't afford to send their children to private schools, if that's women who need abortions, when it's gays or African Americans being discriminated against, if it's working folks trying to get a fair shake. I'm a Democrat because the Democrats stand with them."
pro_6_3	Democrats focus more on improving and developing cities	 Democrats focus more on improving and developing cities "Why I'm a Democrat." Time. June 12th, 2007: "I'm a Democrat because we're the party of cities. We fight for transit. We fight to get people to live near each other. We fight to get affordable housing. We fight to make cities livable. We fight to make cities a great place to work. We fight to make cities engaging."
con_6_1	Republicans believe in helping others by ending dependence on govt	 Republicans believe in helping others by ending dependence on govt Can Tran. "Democrat vs. Republican: Political philosophies." Helium: "Overall, the Republican philosophy is opposed to the role of a larger government. It would mean the government does not impose on your money, your freedoms, your lives, and so forth. This is overall good as it teaches people to be independent. The people within the GOP do believe in helping people out. However, it encourages people to not constantly depend on the government. The GOP philosophy encourages a strong will of independent will."
con_6_2	Republicans believe relying on govt is generally deplorable	 Republicans believe relying on govt is generally deplorable Can Tran. "Democrat vs. Republican: Political philosophies." Helium: "the GOP philosophy is that if people got their stuff together they do not really need help, let alone help from the government." 
con_6_3	Republicans believe private sector is better at helping poor than govt.	Republicans believe private sector is better at helping poor than govt. Most Republicans agree there should be a "safety net" to assist the less fortunate; however, they tend to believe the private sector is more effective in helping the poor than government is; as a result.
con_6_4	Republicans favor those seeking wealth without govt help	 Republicans favor those seeking wealth without govt help Mike Huckabee: "I'm not a republican because I grew up reach, but because I didn't want to spend the rest of my life poor waiting for the government to rescue me."[5] 
con_6_5	Reps believe charity should be voluntary, not through govt welfare.	Reps believe charity should be voluntary, not through govt welfare. Republicans support giving government grants to faith-based and other private charitable organizations to supplant welfare spending
con_6_6	Reps believe heavy limits help ensure safety net is not abused.	Reps believe heavy limits help ensure safety net is not abused. Members of the GOP also believe that limits on eligibility and benefits must be in place to ensure the safety net is not abused.
headline_7	Taxes
pro_7_1	Dems just as good as Reps historically on low taxes	 Dems just as good as Reps historically on low taxes "Should fiscal conservatives vote Republican." We Op-Ed. March 5, 2008: "tax rate on those individuals from the highest tax bracket has been dropping precipitously since the end of WWII, regardless of which party held the white house. In fact, the rates began to fall under Kennedy, a Democrat, and continued through Johnson, another Democrat. The tax rate held steady through Nixon, Ford, and Carter, before tumbling further under Reagan. The tax rate bottomed out in 1989, under Bush I, at 28%- less than a third of its modern peak of 94%, under Truman. Bush then raised taxes from their absurd low, and they have been bouncing around the 30s every since. So from this graph it seems pretty clear: Keeping taxes low for the wealthy has been a bipartisan effort for the last sixty years."
pro_7_2	Democrats support a more progressive tax structure.	Democrats support a more progressive tax structure. This can help provide more services and reduce economic inequality. Currently they have proposed reversing those tax cuts the Bush administration gave to the wealthiest Americans while wishing to keep in place those given to the middle class.
pro_7_3	Progressive tax is most fair; based on ability to pay	 Progressive tax is most fair; based on ability to pay Mark Pash, CFP. "Progressive Economic Principles: Guidelines for economic decision making." Progressive Economics: "Taxation should not be based on how much one pays but how much one has left over to raise a family - be a quality customer - and save for retirement. Progressive Income and Estate taxation are the fairest taxes as they are based more on the ability to pay."
con_7_1	Republicans want people to keep more of money they earn	 Republicans want people to keep more of money they earn "Why I'm a Republican." The Perry County Republican Party: "I believe government must practice fiscal responsibility and allow individuals to keep more of the money they earn."
con_7_2	Republicans believe in supply-side economics and lower taxes.	Republicans believe in supply-side economics and lower taxes. A leading economic theory advocated by modern Republicans is supply-side economics. Some fiscal policies influenced by this theory were popularly known as Reaganomics, a term popularized during the Presidential administrations of Ronald Reagan. This theory holds that reduced income tax rates increase GDP growth and thereby generate the same or more revenue for the government from the smaller tax on the extra growth. This belief is reflected, in part, by the party's long-term advocacy of tax cuts.
con_7_3	Republicans want to tax all people equally/fairly	 Republicans want to tax all people equally/fairly 
con_7_4	Govt spending is a problem that higher taxes can't solve.	Govt spending is a problem that higher taxes can't solve. [...] President Ronald Reagan: "We don't have a trillion-dollar debt because we haven't taxed enough; we have a trillion-dollar debt because we spend too much"
con_7_5	Higher taxes discourage hard work.	Higher taxes discourage hard work. "America’s producers can compete successfully in the international arena – as long as they have a level playing field. Today’s tax code is tilted against them, with one of the highest corporate tax rates of all developed countries. That not only hurts American investors, managers, and the U.S. balance of trade; it also sends American jobs overseas. We support a major reduction in the corporate tax rate so that American companies stay competitive with their foreign counterparts and American jobs can remain in this country." 
con_7_6	Some Republicans believe all tax increases should be voted upon.	Some Republicans believe all tax increases should be voted upon. This is because tax increases are a significant government action into the lives and liberties of citizens. If government is of, by, and for the people, any tax increase should be voted upon by the people.[6]
headline_8	Economy
headline_9	Liberties
pro_9_1	Democrats tend to favor positive liberties	 Democrats tend to favor positive liberties Marty Adkns. "Democrat vs. Republican: Political Philosophies." Helium: "The Democratic party has a general notion of a drive toward positive liberty. The general approach is that economic liberty is a required for any real freedom. Toward that end the party generally favors a course of government intervention designed to equalize economic status. The notion of sharing the wealth more equitably is seen as a laudable goal."
con_9_1	Republicans believe in negative rights limiting govt.	Republicans believe in negative rights limiting govt. Republicans believe in securing for individuals only their "innate rights" or God-given ones, which the government cannot take away, instead of ones that the government is obligated to provide. This is why they are called negative rights. 
headline_10	Constitution
headline_11	State rights
pro_11_1	Liberals favor large federal government over state govt	 Liberals favor large federal government over state govt Dan Shafer. "Liberal Philosophy, Conservative Philosophy and the Great American Center." OneMind. May 21, 2010: "liberals favor a large and strong central government that can equalize and homogenize policy and practice across state borders."
con_11_1	Republicans believe govt most effective when decentralized	 Republicans believe govt most effective when decentralized "GOP vs. Democrats." Arizona Republican Party: "Republicans believe governmental power and resources should be kept close to the people, through their state and community public servants, rather than centralized in distant big government. [...] Democrats believe a centralized power in Washington should control and direct our lives, with secondary consideration for the rights of individual citizens and communities. This has led to increasingly more federal controls and regimentation, often in the hands of un-elected bureaucrats, causing a severe erosion of local government power across the country."
con_11_2	Republicans believe constitution guarantees greater state power	 Republicans believe constitution guarantees greater state power Dan Shafer. "Liberal Philosophy, Conservative Philosophy and the Great American Center." OneMind. May 21, 2010: "Conservatives, by contrast, favor states rights over national government power and a resultingly smaller federal government."
headline_12	Thinking process
pro_12_1	Democrats tend to be more humble	 Democrats tend to be more humble "Why I'm a Democrat." Time. June 12th, 2007: "I'm a Democrat because we have humility. Can you imagine a Republican apologizing to the country the way Clinton did after the sex scandal? Let alone the way JFK did after the Bay of Pigs? Taking any personal responsibility for anything? Shit George W. Bush couldn't even figure out anything he's done wrong in 4 years."
pro_12_2	Democrats appreciate nuances; Republican think black/white	 Democrats appreciate nuances; Republican think black/white Jonathan Haidt. "What Makes People Vote Republican?" AlterNet. September 16, 2008: "conservatism is a partially heritable personality trait that predisposes some people to be cognitively inflexible, fond of hierarchy, and inordinately afraid of uncertainty, change, and death. People vote Republican because Republicans offer "moral clarity" -- a simple vision of good and evil that activates deep seated fears in much of the electorate. Democrats, in contrast, appeal to reason with their long-winded explorations of policy options for a complex world."
pro_12_3	Republican are unintelligent	 Republican are unintelligent "Why I am not a Republican." Capital Gains and Games. Feb 2, 2010: "I can only conclude from this new poll of 2003 self-identified Republicans nationwide that between 20% and 50% of the party is either insane or mind-numbingly stupid." [see linked article for poll and answers.]
con_12_1	Republicans have discipline and authority of football coaches	 Republicans have discipline and authority of football coaches Steve Kornacki. "Why your coach voter Republican." Wall Street Journal. September 2, 2009: "There's no evidence that coaches with a conservative bent are better coaches or more likely to get jobs. Football coaches aren't the most diverse group, which may help explain their political similarities. [...] Still, could it be that football coaches, just by the nature of the job, are more comfortable on the right end of the political spectrum? [...] 'I'd say that sounds likely—very likely,' said Bobby Bowden, the longtime Florida State coach and an outspoken Republican. Mr. Bowden, a 79-year-old native Alabaman, describes himself as a lifelong conservative who—like many white Southerners of his generation—migrated from the Democratic Party to the GOP a few decades ago. There is, he says, a natural connection between his political and coaching philosophies. 'In coaching, you've got to have more discipline and you've got to be more strict and just conservative, I think. It fits with the Republicans,' he said. Mr. Holtz, who coached Notre Dame to its last national championship in 1988, draws a parallel between the standards and rules that most coaches set for their players and the Republican vision of how American society ought to operate. 'You aren't entitled to anything. You don't inherit anything. You get what you earn—your position on the team,' Mr. Holtz said. 'You're treated like everybody else. You're held accountable for your actions. You understand that your decisions affect other people on that team…There's winners, there's losers, and there's competitiveness.'"
con_12_2	Democrats bad at executing their governing agenda	 Democrats bad at executing their governing agenda Ezra Klein. "Can Democrats govern?" Washington Post. January 21, 2010: "It's worth taking a step back from health-care reform for a second. What Democrats are doing isn't just abandoning a particular policy issue. They're proving themselves unable to govern. Democrats spent most of 2009 with 60 votes in the Senate and about 256 in the House. They had a popular new president who was following a disastrous Republican administration and a financial crisis. The opposition party was polling somewhere between foot fungus and spoiled meat. You don't get opportunities like this very often. The Senate majority, in fact, was larger than either party had enjoyed since the 1970s. And what have Democrats accomplished? Well, not much. You can see a list here. A stimulus that was too small. Ted Kennedy's Serve America Act. Credit card regulations that were largely an acceleration of rules the Federal Reserve was going to impose anyway. I guess they almost passed a compromised health-care bill, but you don't go down in history for almosts."
con_12_3	Republicans are more beautiful	 Republicans are more beautiful "Why Republican Men Are Happier." The Iowa Republican. April 26th, 2010 is a comedic article comparing the beauty of Republican and Democratic women, and concluding that Republican women are more beautiful.
headline_13	History
pro_13_1	Democratic heroes include Franklin Roosevelt and John F. Kennedy.	Democratic heroes include Franklin Roosevelt and John F. Kennedy. 
pro_13_2	Democrats have accomplished more when in power	 Democrats have accomplished more when in power kgosztola. "Progressivism Fails Because Democrats are Afraid to Advance a Progressive Agenda." FireDogLake. July 21, 2010: "CAP claims (in the above cited report) progressives were responsible for: the 8-hour work day and 40-hour work week, civil service tests to replace political patronage, worker’s compensation for on-the-job accidents, national supervision of banks and the creation of a flexiblenational currency, unemployment insurance, regulation of the securities industry, prohibitions against child labor and workplace exploitations, federal insurance of bank deposits, the legal right of people to organize within labor unions and engage in, bans on speculative banking practices collective bargaining for fair wages and benefits, the constitutional right to vote, full legal equality, and the elimination, refinancing and foreclosure protections for home and farm owners of formal discrimination for women and minorities, national infrastructure including electrification, railways, airports, the graduated income and inheritance tax bridges and roads, and the Internet, protections against contaminated food and medicines, Social Security and Medicare to aid the elderly and Medicaid and CHIP to help low-income families and children, hundreds of millions of acres of protected wilderness areas, waterways, minimum wage laws and income support for the working poor and national parks, antimonopoly and anticompetitive regulations of corporations, public education, college loans and grants for students, and the GI Bill, direct elections of U.S. senators, direct primary elections of political candidates, and the initiative and referendum process in the states."
con_13_1	Republican heroes include Abraham Lincoln and Ronald Reagan.	Republican heroes include Abraham Lincoln and Ronald Reagan.
con_13_2	Republicans have accomplished more while in party	 Republicans have accomplished more while in party "Beliefs of the Republican party." History Learning Site: "The following is taken from the 1995 Republican Party’s history of the party as presented by the Republican Party’s National Committee. Historically, the party has supported. The abolition of slavery The right of free speech Support of women’s suffrage The reduction of the power of Federal government The reduction of Federal bureaucracy The return of power to state governments The support of the idea of the primacy of the individual To fight for the right of individuals in opposition to large "bloated" government In 1866, a Republican government passed the 1866 Civil Rights Act – a law which restricted the right of states (though this was aimed at the Southern states in particular) to restrict the right of Black Americans to testify in a court of law and to restrict the right of Black Americans to own property The Republicans proposed the 14th Amendment which became part of the Constitution. Jeanette Rankin - a Republican - became the first woman to serve in the House of Representatives, for the state of Montana. The Republicans claim that they were the first party to officially push for women’s suffrage. The Republicans claim to be the first party to favour environmental issues when President Nixon pushed for a Clean Air Act which was duly passed by Congress." [See longer list in argument page or in article].
headline_14	Unions
pro_14_1	Labor unions protect wages, help workers be better consumers.	Labor unions protect wages, help workers be better consumers. Mark Pash, CFP with Brad Parker. "Progessive Economic Principles: Creating a quality economy." Progressive Economics: "We need to compete on a global basis by protecting the wages of our customers and encouraging other countries to do the same. This is accomplished by a change in our current tariff charges and by encouraging the formation of labor unions."
headline_15	Corporate interests
pro_15_1	Republicans are more closely aligned with big corporations	 Republicans are more closely aligned with big corporations David Carlin. "Why I'm Not a Republican." Inside Catholic. September 6th, 2008: "In a modern industrial society, it is normal that there should be two principal parties, one dominated by big business, the other by the "little people." Ever since the presidency of General Grant (1869-77), the GOP has been dominated -- and continues today to be dominated -- by big-business interests. (My Republican friends, I observe, hate to be told this, but it's true all the same.) [...] Now I have no objection to the fact that big business dominates one of our major political parties. It is right that this should be so -- what a strange world it would be if big business, with its great intelligence and vast resources, were not able to dominate one of our two parties! It's just that I, for reasons of temperament and personal history, prefer being with the party of the 'little people.'"
con_15_1	Republicans are more friendly to businesses large and small.	Republicans are more friendly to businesses large and small. The GOP is usually seen as the traditionally pro-business party and it garners major support from a wide variety of industries from the financial sector to small businesses. Republicans are about 50 percent more likely to be self-employed, and are more likely to work in the area of management. This reflects very well on Republicans, not poorly. While it is true that some of the biggest corporations in America favor Republican politicians, it is clearly also true that medium and small companies, including the self-employed, also tend to support the Republican pro-business platform. These businesses are what drive America's economy, so it is very impressive that the Republican party enjoys such wide-spread support from this community. 
headline_16	Foreign Policy
headline_17	National Security
headline_18	Gun Control
headline_19	Abortion
headline_20	Health Care
headline_21	Immigration
headline_22	Crime
headline_23	Gender
pro_23_1	Gender pay gap narrowed under Reps due to sluggish male salaries.	Gender pay gap narrowed under Reps due to sluggish male salaries. Lane Kenworthy. "Vote Republican if You Want Equal Pay?" Consider the Evidence. September 13, 2008: "In a Wall Street Journal op-ed, Casey Mulligan points out that over the past half century the pay gap between women and men has shrunk more under Republican presidents than under Democratic ones. The following chart shows this. The data are from the Census Bureau. Mulligan argues that the best way to achieve equal pay is therefore “to work for a labor market that creates opportunities for women like it did during the Reagan and the Bush years.” But as the next two charts indicate, the Republican advantage in closing the gender pay gap owes mainly to slow earnings growth for men during Republican administrations, rather than rapid earnings growth for women."
con_23_1	Republicans have better closed the gender wage gap.	Republicans have better closed the gender wage gap. Casey Mulligan. "Vote Republican If You Want Equal Pay." Wall Street Journal. September 12th, 2008: "Johnson, Carter and Bill Clinton were all Democrats, yet none of them witnessed much labor market progress for women during their administrations. Essentially all of the labor-market progress for women occurred during Republican administrations: eight years of Reagan, four years of George H.W. Bush, and six years of George W. Bush (I do not yet have the data for the last two years of the current administration). By 2006, the gender wage gap had narrowed to 21%. The Nixon-Ford administrations were the only Republican administrations that failed to witness significant reduction in the gender wage gap during their terms. Sen. Obama says that he wants equal pay for women. If the historical record is any guide, the best way to achieve this is to work for a labor market that creates opportunities for women like it did during the Reagan and the Bush years. At the Reagan-Bush years' pace, the gender wage gap in 2016 would be down to about 12%. At the Carter-Clinton years' pace, women will not see new opportunities, and the gender pay gap will be essentially where it is today."
headline_24	Drugs
headline_25	Environment
headline_26	Energy
headline_27	Education
headline_28	Race
con_28_1	Dems harm minorities through affirm action, welfare	 Dems harm minorities through affirm action, welfare "Why am I a Republican?" Early Riser. February 7th, 2006: "Today, Republicans preach, and largely practice, the idea of meritocracy (i.e. Dr. King's idea that people should be judged by the content of their character) versus the Democrats tendency to confuse unequal outcomes (a fact of life in a free society) with unequal opportunity (racism). [...] Is Trent Lott an idiot? Yes. Are Republicans hatching a secret plot to keep minorities in the under-classes? Absolutely not. I would argue that the welfare state (which financially supports a culture of teen mothers with disinterested fathers) is the single biggest inhibitor to minority success in America."
con_28_2	Democrats wrongly bash Republican minorities	 Democrats wrongly bash Republican minorities "Why am I a Republican?" Early Riser. February 7th, 2006: "African-American Democratic leaders have acted so hurtfully and negatively toward fellow African Americans that have chosen to be active Republicans. Claiming that Rice and Powell are 'house slaves' (Belafonte) and throwing oreos at Ohio Republican Michael Steele are indicative of the fear that African Americans may not be a solid Democratic voting block and, god forbid, some may even find an ideological home in the Republican party. Even in the blogging world, Republicans who happen to be minorities, get chastised by left leaning bloggers as being stooges who have been tricked by evil Republicans into selling-out their race (eg. attacks against Michelle Mallkin)."
con_28_3	Reps see economic factors more important than race in affirm action.	Reps see economic factors more important than race in affirm action. Many Republicans support race-neutral admissions policies in universities but support taking into account the socioeconomic status of the student. This is because these conditions can be more important in determining the potential for a student to succeed than race. Indeed, it seems unfair that a black student from a wealthy and educated family should be given an advantage over a poor white student.
headline_29	Minimum wage
pro_29_1	Democrats generally favor a higher minimum wage.	Democrats generally favor a higher minimum wage. Democrats favor a higher minimum wage, and more regular increases. The Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007 was an early component of the Democrats' agenda during the 110th Congress. In 2006, the Democrats supported six state ballot initiatives to increase the minimum wage; all six initiatives passed.
headline_30	Death penalty
pro_30_1	Democrats oppose death penalty because it is socially unjust	 Democrats oppose death penalty because it is socially unjust "Why I'm a Democrat." Time. June 12th, 2007: "I've got a problem with the Death penalty. It's not a faith-based view but one that comes under social justice and economic fairness. I don't believe there is equality in our judicial system. A wealthy guy and a poor guy go to the same courtroom for the same offense. Who are you betting on to walk? I am obviously Pro-Civil Rights. That definitely comes under social justice."
con_30_1	Republicans support the death penalty as a form of punishment.	Republicans support the death penalty as a form of punishment. 
headline_31	Torture
pro_31_1	Most Democrats believe torture is always unjust.	Most Democrats believe torture is always unjust. Many Democrats are opposed to the use of torture against individuals apprehended and held prisoner by the U.S. military, and hold that categorizing such prisoners as unlawful combatants does not release the U.S. from its obligations under the Geneva Conventions. Democrats contend that torture is inhumane, decreases the United States' moral standing in the world, and produces questionable results. Democrats largely spoke out against waterboarding.
con_31_1	Some Reps believe torture can be just in ticking time-bomb.	Some Reps believe torture can be just in "ticking time-bomb". Some Republicans believe that torture can be justified in the unique scenario in which a ticking time-bomb is known, and torture has the potential to reveal the location so as to save lives.
con_31_2	Republicans believe in more flexible interrogation techniques.	Republicans believe in more flexible interrogation techniques. Many support techniques such as waterboarding, believing that it does not qualify as "torture."
headline_32	Tactics
pro_32_1	Republicans use fear to win votes	 Republicans use fear to win votes Paul Krugman. "Fear Strikes Out." New York Times. March 21st, 2010: "the emotional core of opposition to [health care] reform was blatant fear-mongering, unconstrained either by the facts or by any sense of decency. It wasn’t just the death panel smear. It was racial hate-mongering, like a piece in Investor’s Business Daily declaring that health reform is “affirmative action on steroids, deciding everything from who becomes a doctor to who gets treatment on the basis of skin color.” It was wild claims about abortion funding. It was the insistence that there is something tyrannical about giving young working Americans the assurance that health care will be available when they need it, an assurance that older Americans have enjoyed ever since Lyndon Johnson — whom Mr. Gingrich considers a failed president — pushed Medicare through over the howls of conservatives. And let’s be clear: the campaign of fear hasn’t been carried out by a radical fringe, unconnected to the Republican establishment. On the contrary, that establishment has been involved and approving all the way. Politicians like Sarah Palin — who was, let us remember, the G.O.P.’s vice-presidential candidate — eagerly spread the death panel lie, and supposedly reasonable, moderate politicians like Senator Chuck Grassley refused to say that it was untrue. On the eve of the big vote, Republican members of Congress warned that 'freedom dies a little bit today' and accused Democrats of 'totalitarian tactics,' which I believe means the process known as 'voting.'" 
