title	Open primaries
question	Are open primaries a good idea?
headline_1	Voter choice: Do open primaries improve voter choice?
pro_1_1	Open primaries favor voter wishes over party establishment's	 Open primaries favor voter wishes over party establishment's Daniel Hannan. "Conservative Democrats prove the case for open primaries." Telegraph.co.uk. July 18th, 2009: "Of all the political changes I’d like us to adopt – citizens’ initiatives and referendums, recall votes, a separation of powers, the end of Crown Prerogative, Lords reform, localism – open primaries are the most important. They force politicians to answer downwards to their constituents, not upwards to their Whips. They encourage the parties to reflect local opinion."
pro_1_2	Open primaries advance two most-favored candidates to general	 Open primaries advance two most-favored candidates to general "California should switch to open primary elections." Stanford Daily Editorial. May 12th, 2010: "it would actually strengthen the democratic process by allowing the two most supported candidates to face one another, rather than just the top candidates from each party." These two candidates reflect the greatest will of the people, and the winner would, subsequently, be the strongest possible candidate.
pro_1_3	Open primaries produce competitive, substantive general elections	 Open primaries produce competitive, substantive general elections Edward Headington. "Why Open Primaries Is A Vote for the People." Fox and Hounds. June 4th, 2010: "by allowing the top two vote-getters to move forward, we would at least get a real debate in many districts and the chance that our governing bodies would be more open to bipartisan solutions."
pro_1_4	Open primaries are similar to how local leaders are elected	 Open primaries are similar to how local leaders are elected Californians for an Open Primary: "It's similar to the way we elect school boards, city councils and county boards of supervisors." All of these positions generally exist outside of party affiliation, with the result that voters more frequently elect individuals on the basis of their ability to get results and move things forward rather than on their party and ideological affiliations.
pro_1_5	Open primaries foster nuance and choice within a party.	Open primaries foster nuance and choice within a party. Political parties are not monoliths of political beliefs. Open primaries make it clear, when two candidates of the same party advance through to the general, that those differences can be manifested and hashed out on the larger general-election stage. This is healthy in producing more nuanced, vibrant, and competitive political parties.
con_1_1	Open primaries allow nominations inconsistent with party member views	 Open primaries allow nominations inconsistent with party member views "Why open primaries are a really bad idea." Next Left. May 26th, 2009: "Political parties are also communities of shared belief. I am not a member of the Labour party because I prefer the colour red to the colours yellow, blue or green, but because I have certain values and I judge the Labour party to be the best (if highly imperfect) vehicle for bringing these values to bear on the political system. In choosing candidates for an election, party members choose someone to stand up for these values, make the case for policies that reflect these values to the wider public, and act on them if elected. [...] Under an open primary system, however, party members would lose the ability to choose candidates who reflect the distinctive values of the party to which they belong. If an open primary system works, it means that candidates are chosen who reflect the values of the public at large. The political party thus loses the ability to stand candidates who offer ideas to the public who express its distinctive values and beliefs."
con_1_2	Open primaries reduce distinctive ideological choices	 Open primaries reduce distinctive ideological choices "Why open primaries are a really bad idea." Next Left. May 26th, 2009: "A healthy democracy is one that presents voters at elections with real choices. Political parties, as communities of distinctive shared belief, are the main institution we use to frame choice. Under an open primary system, however, meaningful choice would be under threat. If the open primary system works, then all party candidates will end up looking pretty much like the median voter. Elections will become contests between centrists, and, given the absence of real policy or philosophical difference, will be determined more by issues of personality. That is bad for democracy."
con_1_3	Open primaries push third parties out of general (reduce choice)	 Open primaries push third parties out of general (reduce choice) George Will. "Proposition California ensures electoral blandness." Washington Post. June 13th, 2010: "Voters who prefer their political menu seasoned with the spices provided by minor parties are pretty much out of luck. Under Proposition 14, such parties -- Green, Libertarian, etc. -- which previously could place candidates on November ballots, will almost always be excluded from those by failing to run first or second in primaries."
headline_2	Voter participation: Do open primaries improve voter participation?
pro_2_1	Primaries can decide elections; they need to be inclusive/open.	Primaries can decide elections; they need to be inclusive/open. Primaries are critically important in elections, often determining the winner, particularly in areas that are dominated by one party or another. It is, therefore, very important that they be inclusive and representative of the broader wishes of the electorate. Open primaries help accomplish this by allowing all voters to participate.
pro_2_2	Open primaries let independents/third-party-voters participate	 Open primaries let independents/third-party-voters participate Bob Stern, president of the Los Angeles-based Center for Governmental Studies: "I want every vote to count, and right now there is very little incentive for registered independents to vote in primaries because they have to request a Democratic or Republican ballot."[1]
pro_2_3	Open primaries increase Independents' participation in general election.	Open primaries increase Independents' participation in general election. The open primary could be seen as good for voter participation. First, the open primary allows nonpartisan or independent voters to participate in the nominating process. If these voters are allowed to help select the nominees then they may be more likely to vote in the general election, since one of the candidates could be someone the non-partisan voter voted for. Also, a moderate member of one party may agree more with a candidate for the nomination of another party. This voter will have more of an incentive to participate in the general election if there is a nominee whom he or she agrees with.
pro_2_4	Independent voter base is growing, favoring open primaries	 Independent voter base is growing, favoring open primaries "Why Open Primaries?" OpenPrimaries.org: "40% of the American electorate now identify as independents. While increasing numbers of Americans reject party politics, our electoral process is still regulated by the two parties. The electorate is changing, and our process must change to reflect the make up and preferences of American voters."
pro_2_5	Open primaries demand more from voters in assessing candidates	 Open primaries demand more from voters in assessing candidates "Editorial: California should switch to open primary elections." Stanford Daily Editorial. May 12th, 2010: "Candidates must be evaluated on more than just their party identification in an open system, promoting greater voter involvement."
con_2_1	Open primaries undermine party affiliation and voter participation.	Open primaries undermine party affiliation and voter participation. The open primary could also be viewed as bad for voter participation. Statistics show that voter participation in the United States was higher when people could only vote in the primary for their own party. In Hawaii, primary voter turnout fell from 74.6% in 1978 to 42.2% in 2006 after changing to open primaries. The closed primary system had more of an incentive for people to join one of the major parties. This led to people being more involved in the voting process. With the open primary, some argue, more voters become independent and are less likely to participate in the nominating or election processes.
con_2_2	Open primaries disincentivize engagement by core party activists	 Open primaries disincentivize engagement by core party activists "Why open primaries are a really bad idea." Next Left. May 26th, 2009: "granting Liberal voters who have no record of activism on behalf of the Liberal Party preselection rights will discourage the loyal, hardworking members of the Liberal Party who keep it running between elections. Preselection rights in the Liberal Party are often hard-won and the result of years of work on behalf of the Party. This is an appropriate reward for long serving and dedicated work on behalf of the Party. Liberal Party members who attend State Councils, participate in policy forums and hold fundraisers throughout the electoral cycle deserve recognition for the work that they do. Granting preselection rights to anyone who is willing to fill in a form devalues the contribution of Party members and removes much of the incentive for their work."
con_2_3	Open primaries lower turnout by eliminating clear choices	 Open primaries lower turnout by eliminating clear choices "Why open primaries are a really bad idea." Next Left. May 26th, 2009: "here is good evidence that one of the reasons for things like falling electoral turnout in contemporary democracies is precisely that parties do not offer voters sufficient choice. The open primary, ostensibly a way of putting the political system more in touch with the voter, would be likely to accentuate this in the long-term and so actually risks worsening lack of interest and engagement in the political system."
headline_3	Third parties: Do open primaries help/hurt third parties?
pro_3_1	Open primaries let independents/third-party-voters participate	 Open primaries let independents/third-party-voters participate Bob Stern, president of the Los Angeles-based Center for Governmental Studies: "I want every vote to count, and right now there is very little incentive for registered independents to vote in primaries because they have to request a Democratic or Republican ballot."[2]
pro_3_2	Open primaries lend cred to third-party candidates	 Open primaries lend cred to third-party candidates Susan Nielsen. "Open Oregon's primaries." Oregonian. October 13, 2008: "Opponents also say the top-two system will hurt minor parties. It is true that minor parties will lose their easy route to the general election. However, they may also gain a better chance to compete. For example, a liberal district might find itself with a Democrat and a Green Party member as the top two. The Green candidate would be elevated as a serious contender, rather than a token name, in the general."
con_3_1	Open primaries push third parties out of general elections	 Open primaries push third parties out of general elections George Will. "Proposition California ensures electoral blandness." Washington Post. June 13th, 2010: "Voters who prefer their political menu seasoned with the spices provided by minor parties are pretty much out of luck. Under Proposition 14, such parties -- Green, Libertarian, etc. -- which previously could place candidates on November ballots, will almost always be excluded from those by failing to run first or second in primaries."
con_3_2	If people want choice in a party, they should join it	 If people want "choice" in a party, they should join it "Open or closed primaries." Daily Kos. Oct 21st, 2008: "Interesting. I've long held that if someone wants a say in a party, they should become members of that party. If they are too hip or apathetic or conflicted as to be unable to make a choice between the two dominant parties, then they should have no say in them."
headline_4	Moderation: Do open primaries promote moderates over extremes?
pro_4_1	Open primaries favor moderate/pragmatic candidates	 Open primaries favor moderate/pragmatic candidates Why open primaries? OpenPrimaries.org: "Open primaries encourage candidates with a broad appeal, who favor pragmatic rather than partisan solutions. They allow for the development of new coalitions of voters and candidates."
pro_4_2	Closed primaries have political extremes determine nominees	 Closed primaries have political extremes determine nominees Why open primaries? OpenPrimaries.org: "Closed primaries have small voter turnouts and are dominated by party loyalists and ideologically driven constituencies. Thus a small segment of the electorate determines who gets to run in the general election."
pro_4_3	Open primaries can spur new, moderate coalitions	 Open primaries can spur new, moderate coalitions Why open primaries? OpenPrimaries.org: "Open primaries encourage candidates with a broad appeal, who favor pragmatic rather than partisan solutions. They allow for the development of new coalitions of voters and candidates."
pro_4_4	Open primaries end us vs them partisanship voting	 Open primaries end "us vs them" partisanship voting "California should switch to open primary elections." Stanford Daily Editorial. May 12th, 2010: "The 'opening' of the system by allowing voters to cast their ballot independent of party affiliation is a crucial change. In a political climate that is increasingly polarized by party, opening up the vote would allow voters to see the candidates on a spectrum and break down the “us vs. them” mentality that pervades the current closed system. Candidates must be evaluated on more than just their party identification in an open system, promoting greater voter involvement. The open system also empowers voters to make more of a choice than simply picking their party’s best candidate, allowing for the voter to better evaluate the race overall."
pro_4_5	Open primaries increase bipartisanship/productivity in govt	 Open primaries increase bipartisanship/productivity in govt Joe Kerr, president of the Orange County Professional Firefighters Association – one of the few unions to back Prop. 14 in California supporting Open Primaries: "Our primary reason for supporting it is to create a less hostile environment in Sacramento and get some work done."[3]
con_4_1	Open primaries produce moderate candidates that lack core beliefs	 Open primaries produce moderate candidates that lack core beliefs Jon Fleischman, publisher of the conservative FlashReport: "It would have the effect of reducing the number of ideologues in the Legislature and bringing in more pure politicians who don't have a core set of beliefs."
con_4_2	Closed primaries check centrism in general election	 Closed primaries check centrism in general election "Why open primaries are a really bad idea." Next Left. May 26th, 2009: "any competitive electoral system generates pressure on parties to move to the centre to maximize votes (or, in the case of the our present, dysfunctional electoral system, to move to the centre in a small number of swing constituencies). But one check on this is that candidates and party platforms do have to address the views of party members as well the median voter. Under an open primary system that check on across-the-board centrism would be removed."
con_4_3	Open primaries will make politics more bland	 Open primaries will make politics more bland George Will. "Proposition California ensures electoral blandness." Washington Post. June 13th, 2010: "But, then, blandness is the point of this reform. It seeks to generate a homogenized political class, one not lumpy with liberals and conservatives who, being conviction politicians, do not always play well with others. [...] Does America need a cure for 'partisanship,' the supposed disease of leaders such as Alexander Hamilton and Thomas Jefferson at the birth of America's party system? Does America need a nominating process that narrows choices by stacking the deck against minor parties? Does it need a process that produces 'pragmatic' candidates who, because they have no ballast of 'ideology,' a.k.a ideas, and are not rendered 'rigid' by convictions, can 'reach across the aisle' to achieve compromises congenial to the entire political class? Does America need a nominating process that, suppressing candid partisanship, will tempt stealthy partisans to game the system by voting a weak candidate into the top two?"
headline_5	Free association: Are open primaries consistent with right of free association?
pro_5_1	Primaries too important in democracy to be internal to parties.	Primaries too important in democracy to be internal to parties. While there is a right to association, this has to be balanced against the role that primaries play, fundamentally, in the electoral process and in democracy. Parties do not own this process. They are a part of it. And, in a system dominated by two parties - the Democrats and Republicans - closed primaries give parties a monopoly on power. This is inappropriate. And, open primaries help bring the system back into an appropriate balance.
pro_5_2	Open primaries preserve right of parties to endorse nominees	 Open primaries preserve right of parties to endorse nominees Susan Nielsen. "Open Oregon's primaries." Oregonian. October 13, 2008: Open primaries "would preserve parties' constitutional right to designate their own nominees. Ballots would list each candidate's party affiliation, as well as any official party endorsements. Parties would retain quite a bit of flexibility: For example, they could endorse multiple candidates (or none) in a primary race, then pick one (or both) in the general."
pro_5_3	Closed primaries can also violate free assoc	 Closed primaries can also violate free assoc While opponents of open primaries try to raise constitutional issues with Open Primaries, they fail to realize that this argument cuts both ways. The most popular alternative to the open primary is the closed primary. And, the closed primary can also be construed as unconstitutional. In Tashjian v. Republican Party of Connecticut, the United States Supreme Court determined that Connecticut’s closed primary law was unconstitutional. The Connecticut closed primary law “[required] voters in any political party primary to be registered members of that party.”[4]
con_5_1	Open primaries violate right of free association	 Open primaries violate right of free association Opponents of the open primary argue that the open primary is unconstitutional. These opponents believe that the open primary law violates their freedom of association, because it forces them to allow outsiders to select their candidates.
con_5_2	Primaries are internal matters for party to choose best candidate	 Primaries are internal matters for party to choose best candidate James Frye. "Why open primaries are a really bad idea." Liberaland. June 9th, 2010: "The arguments for open primaries tend to go for the “it allows more voters to participate” line.  That’s fine for November when everybody can vote for anybody.  Primaries are (or should be) an internal function of the political parties.  No one outside of nonpartisan offices are elected to anything on primary day:  this is the chance for party members to decide who they think would be the best candidate for their party for the general election.  If you want to participate, register to vote with a party affiliation.  Doing that doesn’t mean that you have to vote for the candidates of the party exclusively and forever, it just allows you to help pick their candidates
con_5_3	General election are open; primaries are OK to be closed.	General election are open; primaries are OK to be closed. The general election is where all of the electorate can vote for whomever they like. There is no reason to, therefore, make the primaries open. This would be repetitive and in some ways eliminate the function and purpose of primaries in democracy.
headline_6	Manipulation: Are open primaries at risk of voter manipulation?
pro_6_1	Voter manipulation risk too small to outweigh open primary pros	 Voter manipulation risk too small to outweigh open primary pros "California should switch to open primary elections." Stanford Daily Editorial. May 12th, 2010: "Many may argue that parties will manipulate the vote in an open system and it will be too confusing for voters. While these concerns may be valid, the small risk these changes pose does not outweigh the benefit of empowering the voters of California." 
pro_6_2	Manipulative tactics in open primaries rarely materialize	 Manipulative tactics in open primaries rarely materialize Kirk Johnson. "In open primary, fear of party crashing." New York Times. June 15, 2010: "So-called tactical voting in open primaries, here and elsewhere, is a perennial possibility that mostly fizzles come Election Day, voting experts say. And some people in both parties are convinced that will happen again here. [...] Mr. Wimmer, for example, who initially floated the idea of Republicans voting for Ms. Wright on his Facebook page last month, later withdrew the post and denounced the idea. A spokesman for the Utah Tea Party movement, David Kirkham, also said the group was opposed to members voting in the Democratic primary. 'We don’t play in the gutter,' Mr. Kirkham, adding that believed deliberate cross-party interference would be against Tea Party principles."
pro_6_3	Prospect of open primary manipulation incentivizes engaging voters	 Prospect of open primary manipulation incentivizes engaging voters "Rage against the machine." Times Online. August 5th, 2009: "In marginal constituencies, it is possible that opposition parties might make mischief by selecting a poor candidate for a party on whom they wish only defeat. [...] But even the prospect of mischief is an incentive for parties to engage the local electorate."
con_6_1	Open primaries allow tactical manipulation	 Open primaries allow tactical manipulation James Frye. "Why open primaries are a really bad idea." Liberaland. June 9th, 2010: "The open primary is also an invitation for one party to see to it that the weakest possible candidate of the other party wins to ensure that their real candidate has a better chance in the general election. This appears to have been what happened in the case of Mr. Greene’s Democratic nomination ‘victory’ in South Carolina. Sneaky?  Yes, but totally legal and the SC Democrats would have done the same to the Republicans if they could."
con_6_2	Open primaries abused to oust sitting politicians	 Open primaries abused to oust sitting politicians "Open primaries are an open invitation for political mischief." Telegraph. August 16th, 2009: "If open primaries were used to challenge a sitting member who wished to seek re-election, supporters of opposing parties would welcome the opportunity to cause disruption by voting for anyone but the sitting member."
headline_7	Party power: Do open primaries increase/decrease party power?
pro_7_1	Parties like closed primaries because extremes help fundraising	 Parties like closed primaries because extremes help fundraising Jim Boren. "Why open primary is good." Merced Sun Star. June 15th, 2010: "Here's the real reason the major parties in California don't like open primaries: They will lose power if politics become more moderate in the Golden State. They fear that lawmakers in the political middle will find compromises to our most difficult problems. That would mean that the political extremists on the left and the right will not be able to control the debate. Party opposition to open primaries goes back to money. The Republicans raise money by telling people on their mailing list that they need to send $100 to the party or the Democrats will push through tax increases. The Democrats raise money by telling its members to send money or the Republicans will close the public schools. How are they going to raise money if all they have to report to party members is the budget crisis has been solved with a bipartisan agreement to make cuts and raise revenue?"
pro_7_2	Open primaries favor best candidate over party affiliation	 Open primaries favor best candidate over party affiliation "Editorial: California should switch to open primary elections." Stanford Daily Editorial. May 12th, 2010: "The open system also empowers voters to make more of a choice than simply picking their party’s best candidate, allowing for the voter to better evaluate the race overall. [...] An open primary system will open dialogue across party lines and, hopefully, lead to candidates being elected based on qualifications rather than just party affiliations."
pro_7_3	Open primaries free candidates from party affiliations.	Open primaries free candidates from party affiliations. In many open primaries, candidates have the option to affiliate with a party, but they are not required to have "D" or "R" next to their name on the ballot. This generally frees politicians from the current, excessive dependence on party affiliation and the political machines that run elections and often strong-arm candidates on the positions they will take.
pro_7_4	Open primaries favor new candidates over establishment.	Open primaries favor new candidates over establishment. Why open primaries? OpenPrimaries.org: "Closed primaries favor candidates who are supported by the party establishment and make it nearly impossible for insurgents and new leaders to win elections."
con_7_1	Open primaries allow nominations inconsistent with party views	 Open primaries allow nominations inconsistent with party views James Paterson. "Open Primaries threaten Liberal values." Menzies House. April 20th, 2010: "widening the group of people who have preselection voting rights will undoubtedly result in less ideological candidates being preselected to represent the Liberal Party. Liberal Party members, as active committed Liberals, are likely to be signifcantly more ideological than an average Liberal voter who may register to vote in a preselection. They are more likely to place weight on philosophical sophistication and on the importance to adhering to Liberal values than general Liberal voters. Indeed, the major reason the Liberal Party Federally reversed its position on the Emissions Trading Scheme was that Liberal Party members bombarded their MPs about their strong views on the scheme. If those Party members did not have the threat of recrimination at a future preselection, they would lose all ability to influence their MPs."
con_7_2	Open primaries diminish value of party influence	 Open primaries diminish value of party influence James Paterson. "Open Primaries threaten Liberal values." Menzies House. April 20th, 2010: "the major reason the Liberal Party Federally reversed its position on the Emissions Trading Scheme was that Liberal Party members bombarded their MPs about their strong views on the scheme. If those Party members did not have the threat of recrimination at a future preselection, they would lose all ability to influence their MPs."
con_7_3	Open primary cost barrier diminishes prospects for outsider candidates	 Open primary cost barrier diminishes prospects for outsider candidates "'Open' Primaries and the Illusion of Choice." Open Salon, Front Porch Republic. June 9th, 2010: "And, as a report from the nonpartisan Center for Governmental Studies predicts, it is going to 'significantly' increase the cost of running for office in California, since candidates will have to make appeals to a wider swath of voters. That means, of course, that it will be that much more difficult for non-moneyed candidates to have a shot at elected office." This will have the effect of increasing the power of political parties and their fundraising machines. Without these machines, candidates will have close to no chance at winning in the primaries.
headline_8	Same-party candidates: Is it OK to advance two candidates from same party?
pro_8_1	Open primaries would rarely lead to two nominees of same party.	Open primaries would rarely lead to two nominees of same party. "California open primaries? Give them a chance." Los Angeles Times Editorial. February 11th, 2010: "In a heavily Democratic legislative district, it's possible that the runoff could pit two Democrats against each other -- one a liberal, the other more moderate. Ditto a district dominated by GOP voters -- a conservative against a centrist. [...] But the vast majority of runoffs would involve a traditional matchup between a Democrat and a Republican."
con_8_1	Open primaries often results in two candidates from same party	 Open primaries often results in two candidates from same party Adam Summers. "California Open Primary Measure Would Reduce Voter Choice, Violate Freedom of Association." Reason Foundation. June 7, 2010: "under the open primary system the top two vote winners in many districts will be from the same party. According to a Center for Governmental Studies report, more than one-third of districts would likely see two candidates from the same party square off against each other during the general election in this system. This hardly encourages more moderate candidates in such districts, and will give voters that don't belong to that party no real choice or incentive to show up at the polls for the general election. It would also effectively destroy all third parties in the state, as their candidates would rarely, if ever, make the top two. This would make it practically impossible for them to even qualify to field candidates in future elections."
headline_9	Election cost: Can costs of open primaries be kept down?
pro_9_1	Costs less important than appealing to all voters in open primaries	 Costs less important than appealing to all voters in open primaries Susan Nielsen. "Open Oregon's primaries." Oregonian. October 13, 2008: "Party leaders tend to love closed primaries. It's cheaper and easier for them, because they don't have to appeal to as many voters. They've forgotten one risk of clinging to a closed primary. Eventually, a critical mass of voters will either feel frozen out of the system or weary of partisan politics. That time may be now. Voters ready for a more open primary should support Measure 65."
pro_9_2	Open primaries can be modified to limit costs	 Open primaries can be modified to limit costs 
con_9_1	Open primaries will increase cost barrier for candidates	 Open primaries will increase cost barrier for candidates "'Open' Primaries and the Illusion of Choice." Open Salon, Front Porch Republic. June 9th, 2010: "And, as a report from the nonpartisan Center for Governmental Studies predicts, it is going to 'significantly' increase the cost of running for office in California, since candidates will have to make appeals to a wider swath of voters. That means, of course, that it will be that much more difficult for non-moneyed candidates to have a shot at elected office."
