title	English as US official language
question	
headline_1	Integration or discrimination: Does official English advance the former or later?
pro_1_1	Official English aids American assimilation	 Official English aids American assimilation President Theodore Roosevelt once said: "We have one language here, and that is the English language, and we intend to see that the [assimilation] crucible turns our people out as Americans."[1]
pro_1_2	Official English unites Americans around a common language	 Official English unites Americans around a common language US English, a US advocacy organization. "Why is official English necessary?": "Official English unites Americans, who speak more than 322 languages (2000, U.S. Census), by providing a common means of communication."
pro_1_3	All US citizens should be able to speak English.	All US citizens should be able to speak English. Steve Balich, the Homer, Illinois township's clerk and author of a July 2010 resolution calling for official English: "We want the people who come to this country to become official U.S. citizens and to learn to speak. It's really as simple as that"[2] This is a common provision in many countries abroad, and a reasonable request by a government and nation that has always conducted its official governing in English.
pro_1_4	Official English does not mean English only	 "Official English" does not mean "English only" "Why official English?": "Official English doesn't mean 'English only.' None of the 30 states with official English laws prohibit government agencies from using another languages when there is a compelling public interest for doing so. These include: protecting public health and safety, assuring equality before the law, promoting tourism, teaching foreign languages, providing for national defense, and many other legitimate, common sense needs." The government can act to provide these services when necessary. But, it is another thing entirely for a citizen to demand these services as a right.
pro_1_5	Official English has nothing to do with discrimination.	Official English has nothing to do with discrimination. This isn't about race. People from every race come to the US and learn to understand the American dialect of English. 
pro_1_6	Suggesting learning English is too hard for some is racist.	Suggesting learning English is too hard for some is racist. Suggesting that learning English is easy for some races and difficult for other races is, itself, racist. Anybody can learn English. It is not too high of a burden to ask them to do so in order to live in the United States.
pro_1_7	Choice exists to learn language; Official English not discrimination.	Choice exists to learn language; Official English not discrimination. Real forms of discrimination aim at the inherent characteristics of an individual that they cannot change (such as their skin color or national origin). But, language is different, as an individual can choose to learn English. If they feel disadvantaged because they are not able to read government documents, ballots, or defend themselves in court, it is fully their choice to change this by learning English. 
pro_1_8	Too many languages for right to govt services in own language.	Too many languages for right to govt services in own language. There are over three hundred languages spoken in the United States. And, there are roughly 15 million American citizens (about 5% of the total population of 300 million) who do not speak English. Giving all of those individuals, in all of those different languages, the right to demand government services in their own language is preposterous. If we give Spanish speaking people this right, we would naturally have to extend the right to all the other 300 some-odd languages and those that speak them. This would unreasonably burden government services, adding a huge layer of bureaucracy and costs. Even then, inevitably, somebody with some obscure language will find that their "right" to have services provided to them in their own language will not be adequately fulfilled at some government facility. This is a bad combination in public policy; a right that cannot be provided adequately that nevertheless adds billions of dollars in extra costs for US government and taxpayers. 
con_1_1	American unity never rested on unity of language	 American unity never rested on unity of language Linguistic Society of America Resolution on English Only. July 1, 1987: "American unity has never rested primarily on unity of language, but rather on common political and social ideals."
con_1_2	Imposing official language often undermines national unity	 Imposing official language often undermines national unity Linguistic Society of America Resolution on English Only. July 1, 1987: "History shows that a common language cannot be imposed by force of law, and that attempts to do so usually create divisiveness and disunity. This has been the effect, for example, of the efforts of the English to impose the English language in Ireland, of Soviet efforts to impose the Russian language on non-Russian nationalities, and of Franco's efforts to impose Spanish on the Basques and Catalans."
con_1_3	Some countries do very well with many official languages.	Some countries do very well with many official languages. Switzerland has four official languages: French, German, Italian and Romansh. All four languages have equal status and children are educated in the language spoken in the region where they live. And, Switzerland is a country that has very strong unity and economic functionality.[3]
con_1_4	Official English discriminates against non-English speakers	 Official English discriminates against non-English speakers "Language Rights Are Protected Under Civil Rights Law." MALDEF on OpposingViews.com: "Language is not only a barrier to communication, but also an identifying characteristic of an individual’s ethnicity and national origin. [...] Congress passed the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits discrimination based on race, ancestry, national origin or ethnicity. Section 601 of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 bans discrimination based "on the ground of race, color, or national origin," in "any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.” Title VI of the Civil Rights Act provides the foundation for ensuring nondiscrimination in all federal programs and services, including those provided to language minorities."[See extended argument on OpposingViews.com]
con_1_5	Official English is driven by anti-immigrant and racist sentiments	 Official English is driven by anti-immigrant and racist sentiments Individuals involved in the official english movement are very often driven by anti-immigrant feelings, or pure racism. For example, John Tanton, the founder of the main political lobbying organization in this movement called US English, had to resign in 1986 after making derogatory remarks about Hispanics.[4]
con_1_6	Official English offends idea of American diversity	 Official English offends idea of American diversity America is a very diverse country that has been culturally enriched by immigrants from around the world. As a sign of respect to all these people it should not limit its citizens by introducing English as the only official language. 
con_1_7	Official English degrades image of other languages	 Official English degrades image of other languages It gives the impression that English is more important than other languages, thereby devaluing them.
con_1_8	Official English violates US first amendment	 Official English violates US first amendment "What's Wrong With 'English Only' Laws?" American Civil Liberties Union. September 8, 2000: "English Only" laws, which declare English to be the country's official language and bar government employees from providing non-English language assistance and services, are inconsistent with both the First Amendment right to communicate with or petition the government, and the right to equality."
con_1_9	US official language violates equal protection in court	 US official language violates equal protection in court If the government is not required to provide a defendant with appropriate language services, this may significantly undermine their ability to defend themselves, thus undermining equal protection in court.
headline_2	English under threat? Is English under threat right now?
pro_2_1	The English language is under threat in America	 The English language is under threat in America "Linguistic Unity Is Critical in an Increasingly Diverse Society." ProEnglish on Opposing Views.com: "America's linguistic unity, that enabled the melting-pot crucible to forge one nation out of millions of immigrants from all over the world, is under pressure as never before in our history. The record numbers of non-English speaking immigrants the United States is receiving is adding to the nation’s diversity and putting enormous pressure on the assimilation process."
con_2_1	English is not under threat nor needing protection	 English is not under threat nor needing protection Linguistic Society of America Resolution on English Only. July 1, 1987: "The English language in America is not threatened. All evidence suggests that recent immigrants are overwhelmingly aware of the social and economic advantages of becoming proficient in English, and require no additional compulsion to learn the language." Indeed, roughly 94% of Americans already speak English. This is a very high number, compared to other countries that have much greater linguistic stratification. It is not necessary, therefore, to change anything and make any greater effort at compelling Americans to learn English.  
headline_3	Learning English: Does official English encourage learning language?
pro_3_1	Official English encourages immigrants to learn language and succeed	 Official English encourages immigrants to learn language and succeed "Why official language?" English as our official language: "Learning to speak English empowers immigrants. By more than 2-1 immigrants themselves say the U.S. should expect new immigrants to learn English (1) and by a 9-1 margin Hispanic immigrants believe learning English is essential to succeed in the U.S."
pro_3_2	15m Americans don't speak English; more incentives needed.	15m Americans don't speak English; more incentives needed. While many say that there is plenty motivation for immigrants to learn English, then why is 5% of the population, 15 million, or 5 in every 100 individuals unable to speak English? Clearly, there is room for improvement, and Official English is a good way to give an extra boost of encouragement to those in the gap. 
con_3_1	Incentive to learn English exists w/o making it official language	 Incentive to learn English exists w/o making it official language "The Myth of English as a Threatened Language." MALDEF on OpposingViews.com: "Latino immigrants are learning English, and doing so as quickly as or more quickly than previous generations of immigrants.  As is typical of immigrant populations in the United States, by the third generation most Latinos tend to speak only English.  Latino immigrants, then, do not need official English or English-only legislation to coerce them into learning English; that desire and determination already runs deep in the Latino community."
con_3_2	Immigrants want to learn English, but not enough classes	 Immigrants want to learn English, but not enough classes "The Myth of English as a Threatened Language." MALDEF on OpposingViews.com: "The problem is not that immigrants are unwilling to learn English, but that there are not enough available educational resources for them. Today, many thousands of immigrants throughout the country are on the waiting lists for adult English classes."
headline_4	In education: Are English-only education policies effective?
pro_4_1	Bilingual initiatives costly; official English cheaper	 Bilingual initiatives costly; official English cheaper Bilingual initiatives can be very costly. They require hiring bilingual teachers, creating bilingual curriculum, creating tests in the foreign language, and buying different text books for these students. All of this adds expenses to schools who's budgets are already stretched thin.  
pro_4_2	Bilingual programs allow students to get by w/o learning English	 Bilingual programs allow students to get by w/o learning English "Why Official English?" ProEnglish.org: "today, in segregated classrooms, so-called 'bilingual education' keeps immigrant children from learning English, by teaching them in foreign languages. And millions of people cannot find good-paying jobs, because they lack the ability to speak English with customers, co-workers or employers." 
pro_4_3	English only in schools is effective language immersion.	English only in schools is effective language immersion. Immersion is a very effective strategy used in university programs, where college students are sent abroad and immersed in a language. Sometime, there is a requirement in these programs that students speak no English at all, and only the new language being learned. This is because immersion forces an individual, under high pressure, to learn the language quickly. English-only policies in schools follow this logic, teak kids English more quickly, and subsequently benefit them in their lives in the long-run.
pro_4_4	Parents responsible for child's language acquisition/retention.	Parents responsible for child's language acquisition/retention. Too much responsibility is often placed on schools to accommodate children. It is the parent's responsibility to help their child learn English or to make sure that they are retaining their native language at the same time as they learn English.
con_4_1	English-only policies do not help teach English	 English-only policies do not help teach English "Congress Should Prioritize English Learning, Not English-only." MALDEF on Opposing Views.com: "English Language Learners want to learn English but are too often hampered in their efforts to achieve full proficiency.  English-only and Official English laws do nothing constructive to advance the important goal of English proficiency. 
con_4_2	English-only in schools disadvantages non-native students	 English-only in schools disadvantages non-native students In the 1974 case of Lau v. Nichols, the Supreme Court ruled that: "there is no equality of treatment merely by providing students with the same facilities, textbooks, teachers, and curriculum; for students who do not understand English are effectively foreclosed from any meaningful education" (U.S. Supreme Court, 414 U.S. 563)[5]
con_4_3	Official English impairs retention of first language	 Official English impairs retention of first language If young individuals are immersed in English at a young age, there is a significant risk that they will lose, or diminish, their first language. 
con_4_4	English-only policies increase non-native dropout rates	 English-only policies increase non-native dropout rates James Vazins. "Boston students struggle with English-only rule. Many nonnatives quit the system." Boston Glob. April 7th, 2009: "Students not fluent in English have floundered in Boston schools since voters approved a law change six years ago requiring school districts to teach them all subjects in English rather than their native tongue, according to a report being released tomorrow. [...] In one of the most striking findings, the study found that the high school dropout rate nearly doubled for students still learning to speak and write in English, according to the report by the Mauricio Gastón Institute for Latino Community Development and Public Policy at the University of Massachusetts at Boston and the Center for Collaborative Education."
headline_5	Practicality: Is official English practical?
pro_5_1	Impractical/expensive for govt to cater to multiple languages	 Impractical/expensive for govt to cater to multiple languages USEnglish.org. "Why is Official English necessary?": "Official English is common sense government. The designation of official English will eliminate the needless duplication of government services in multiple languages. It is not the responsibility of the government to provide services in the 322 different languages spoken in the United States. It is the responsibility of each individual to either learn English or to find a friend or family member to translate. The money formerly spent on multi-lingual services can instead provide immigrants with the assistance they really need-classes to teach them English."
pro_5_2	Official English only limits govt, not private language-use	 Official English only limits govt, not private language-use USEnglish.org. "Why is Official English necessary?": "because official English is only a limitation on government, it does not affect the languages spoken in private businesses, religious services or private conversations."
pro_5_3	Official English only limits federal govt, not others.	Official English only limits federal govt, not others. Official English only limit requirements on the federal government documents to provide documents in services in languages other than English. It would not limit states, private businesses, communities, nor families. 
pro_5_4	Official English should be non-controversial.	Official English should be non-controversial. Eric Crafton - Nashville, Tenn., City Council - said in 2009: “English is under attack. The fact that making English our Government’s official language is even controversial should give us all pause."[6]
pro_5_5	English is the most widely spoken language in the US.	English is the most widely spoken language in the US. An overwhelming majority of US citizens already speaks English. For a major part of them English is a mother tongue. So, if there is to be one official language, English is clearly the most natural and logical choice. In addition, 30 U.S. states have already enacted laws making English their official language.
pro_5_6	English has been used officially in US historically.	English has been used officially in US historically. The U.S. was founded by 13 British colonies. Both the US declaration of independence and US constitution are written in English. This itself make English the "de facto" official language of the United States. Why not make it the de jure official language?
pro_5_7	English is the official language of over 30 us States.	English is the official language of over 30 us States. English is the official language of over 30 US states, a vast majority of %60. There have been no problems in adopting the provision in these states. Therefore, there should be no problems adopting it nationally.  
con_5_1	US language policy is working fine; why create official language?	US language policy is working fine; why create official language? The US and 20 of its constituent states (Alaska, Connecticut, Delaware, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Nevada, New Mexico, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Texas, Vermont, Washington, West Virginia) seem to have muddled along so far without any official national language. Linguist Geoffrey Pullum, in an essay entitled "Here come the linguistic fascists," points out that English is far from under threat in the United States, and argues that "making English the official language of the United States of America is about as urgently called for as making hotdogs the official food at baseball games."[7]
con_5_2	Language policies should be state-by-state, not national.	Language policies should be state-by-state, not national. There should be no official national language. One of the great strengths of the United States is that we can experiment on a state-by-state basis. When one state does things one way, and a neighboring state does things the other way, it is much easier to see the advantages of doing things one way or the other. This allows each state to choose one way or the other based on objective evidence and results. And, indeed, 30 states have already opted to have English as their state's official language. While, some may disagree on this side with the decision of any one state to adopt official English, the state-by-state approach may still be considered superior to a national English policy.
con_5_3	Official language probably won't change any policies.	Official language probably won't change any policies. If English is made into the official language, but you don't actually change anything -- kind of like English is the official langauge of California, but the California Department of Motor Vehicles still prints the Driver License Handbook in at least 8 other languages -- then it's a nice symbolic guesture, but why bother?
con_5_4	Official English is just symbolic.	Official English is just symbolic. Official English is just symbolic. It probably will not change any policies, it's just meant to send a message. But, this message is highly charged and controversial, as it is often interpreted as exclusionary, anti-immigrant, and even racist. Such consequences usually make a symbolic gesture such as Official English a bad idea.
headline_6	Public interest: Is official English in public interest (safety, etc)?
pro_6_1	Official language key to using govt services.	Official language key to using govt services. If an immigrant does not know English, and an accident happens, they need to know how to communicate with a 9/11 agent, or police that arrive on the seen. It is unreasonable to rely on Spanish speaking infrastructure in the event of emergency, when rapid communication is needed.
pro_6_2	Official English has exceptions for safety, health, etc.	Official English has exceptions for safety, health, etc. Official English does not constrain the government to always, in every situation, providing only English in its services. It, rather, makes a general rule that the government is not obligated to provide these services, but allows for the government to provide services in other languages when there is an exceptional, compelling state interest to do so, particularly for health, safety, tourism, economic development, and for libraries' foreign language materials.[8] 
pro_6_3	Non-English driver will not be able to read road-signs.	Non-English driver will not be able to read road-signs. If a driver's license can be issued through a non-English test, then the driver with that license may be unable to read road-signs, which can be a public safety hazard.
pro_6_4	Official English is key to democratic participation	 Official English is key to democratic participation Official English encourages individuals to learn English, which is essential in being able to participate in American democracy.
pro_6_5	English-only in workplace protects businesses from lawsuits	 English-only in workplace protects businesses from lawsuits "Tennessee becomes first state to protect businesses with English workplace policies." US English. June 24th, 2010: "With the signature of Democratic Governor Phil Bredesen, Tennessee became the first state today to protect the rights of businesses to have English-in-the-workplace policies where there is a 'legitimate business necessity.' [...] The bill, which passed overwhelmingly with bipartisan support in the state House and Senate, was designed to comply with rules set by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and to protect businesses from lawsuits. Federal courts have affirmed that businesses can require their employees to speak English during business operations and for safety reasons."
con_6_1	English-only laws can be a public safety/health hazard	 English-only laws can be a public safety/health hazard "English-Only Negatively Impacts the Government’s Response to Disasters." MALDEF on OpposingViews.com: "Examples of situations in which government officials must communicate efficiently and effectively to ensure the safety of the general populace abound. In the event of a natural disaster or terrorist threat, for example, federal emergency workers must be able to convey important information and instructions to as broad an audience as possible, a need that may require the use of languages other than English.  A national English-only policy would impede the government’s ability to convey warnings or post danger or hazard signs in languages other than English. Such a policy would prevent local law enforcement from effectively investigating crimes, communicating with crime victims or witnesses, or providing critically needed services to victims of domestic violence and abuse?
con_6_2	Official English undermines benefits of linguistic diversity	 Official English undermines benefits of linguistic diversity Linguistic Society of America Resolution on English Only. July 1, 1987: "It is to the economic and cultural advantage of the nation as a whole that its citizens should be proficient in more than one language, and to this end we should encourage both foreign language study for native English speakers, and programs that enable speakers with other linguistic backgrounds to maintain proficiency in those languages along with English."
con_6_3	Official English limits diplomatic benefits of linguistic diversity.	Official English limits diplomatic benefits of linguistic diversity. If official English has the effect of diminishing linguistic diversity in a country, this will be bad for international diplomatic efforts abroad and at home that require this diversity. 
headline_7	Other countries: Do other countries have official languages?
pro_7_1	Most countries have an official language.	Most countries have an official language. According to some sources, over 85 percent of the world’s countries have at least one official language.[9] Therefore, the United States is at odds with international norms in not having an official language. An official language is not out the ordinary or controversial, and this is evidenced by the international adoption of this norm. The United States, therefore, should take comfort in this fact if/when it decides to make English its official language. 
con_7_1	No official language makes US unique internationally.	No official language makes US unique internationally. Many people today believe that the US is the "#1" country in the world in several important ways; perhaps being *different* from countries with an official national language is one of our advantages. It certainly fits with America's inclusive history and culture. The United States has never been known to follow. Why should it do so by adopting English as its official language?
headline_8	Public opinion: Does public opinion support official English?
pro_8_1	Public opinion favors English as the official language	 Public opinion favors English as the official language "Americans Overwhelmingly Support Official English" ProEnglish on OpposingViews.com: "National polls and state referendums show conclusively that Americans, including Hispanic Americans, overwhelmingly support Official English. 87% of American voters support making English the official language of the United States. 77% of Hispanic voters think English should be the official language of government operations. 82% of Americans support legislation that would require the federal government to conduct business solely in English. 72% of American young people ages 18-24, including majorities of Hispanic and Asian-American young people, favor making English the official language. 74% of American voters agree that election ballots should be exclusively in English. Nearly two thirds of all Hispanic adults --65 percent -- favor making English the nation's official language." [See extended argument on OpposingViews.com]
con_8_1	Majority should not oppress minority non-English speakers.	Majority should not oppress minority non-English speakers. The main argument against Official English is that it is discrimination against non-English speakers, violating their right to certain forms of protection under the law. Such minority rights are important to protect, and equally so against the opinions of the majority of Americans who may believe it is OK to violate these rights. Following majority opinion in advancing Official English would subscribe to a tyranny of the majority philosophy. 
headline_9	Pro/Con sources
