title	Deporting illegal immigrants in the US
question	Should the US adopt policies to deport all illegal immigrants?
headline_1	Feasibility: Is mass deportation a viable option?
pro_1_1	US is capable of deporting all illegal immigrants	 US is capable of deporting all illegal immigrants CNN’s Lou Dobbs said that, "When this president and open-borders, illegal-alien-amnesty advocates say, ‘You can’t deport them,’ my answer is, ‘You wanna bet?’ Because this is the United States."[1]  
pro_1_2	Deporting illegal immigrants in smaller numbers is feasible	 Deporting illegal immigrants in smaller numbers is feasible Ian de Silva. "How to Deport 10 Million Illegal Aliens." Human Events. May 18th, 2006: "no one is seriously talking about mass deportation, for anyone with a modicum of common sense knows we could not round up all the illegal aliens at once. [...] However, we can round them up in smaller numbers, and over time, the cumulative effect of round-ups will have an undeniably deterrent effect."
pro_1_3	Illegal aliens can be compelled to leave on their own	 Illegal aliens can be compelled to leave on their own Ian de Silva. "How to Deport 10 Million Illegal Aliens." Human Events. May 18th, 2006: "Since illegal aliens came here on their own, they should be made to leave here on their own. Call this self-repatriation. In effect, it is deporting them without having to formally deport them en masse. And it would be infinitely cheaper for the American taxpayers."
pro_1_4	Path to citizenship is more difficult than deportation	 Path to citizenship is more difficult than deportation Joe Guzzardi, English Instructor at Lodi Adult School. "Joe Feels Good About Immigration Bill..." VDARE.com. June 2, 2006: "S. 2611 is not administratively manageable. Has anyone wondered how many hundreds of millions of pieces of paper would have to be processed to legalize tens of millions of aliens? Forget it."[2]
pro_1_5	Feasible to deport illegals; lack of will is only problem	 Feasible to deport illegals; lack of will is only problem 
pro_1_6	General statements in favor of deporting illegals from the US	 General statements in favor of deporting illegals from the US John McCain said during a July interview on KQTH-FM in  Tuscon: "No amnesty. Many of them need to be sent back."[3]
con_1_1	Deporting 13 million illegal immigrants is not possible	 Deporting 13 million illegal immigrants is not possible To send 12 million illegal immigrants abroad by plane would require about 30,000 flights. To deport that many people by bus would be cheaper, but would still require 240,000 bus loads. Furthermore, these assumptions neglect both the possibility of trial, and the fact that illegal immigrants come from places other than Mexico.
con_1_2	Each illegal immigrant has to be arrested/deported individually.	Each illegal immigrant has to be arrested/deported individually. Mass deportation would involve a broad campaign on an individual level, including finding, arresting, charging, processing, and transporting each of the 15 or so million illegal immigrants in question. Because this all has to be done on an individual basis, one illegal immigrant at a time, it becomes nearly impossible, or at least prohibitively expensive. 
con_1_3	Deportation is not feasible; legalization is only option	 Deportation is not feasible; legalization is only option Michael R. Bloomberg, MBA, 108th Mayor of the City of New York, in a July 5, 2006: "We need to get real about the people who are now living in this country illegally – in many cases raising families and paying taxes. The idea of deporting these 11 or 12 million people – about as many as live in the entire state of Pennsylvania – is pure fantasy. Even if we wanted to, it would be physically impossible to carry out. If we attempted it – and it would be perhaps the largest round-up and deportation in world history – the social and economic consequences would be devastating. Let me ask you: Would we really want to spend billions of dollars on a round-up and deportation program that would split families in two – only to have these very same people and millions more, illegally enter our country again? Of course not. America is better than that – and smarter than that. There is only one practical solution, and it is a solution that respects the history of our nation: Offer those already here the opportunity to earn permanent status and keep their families together."[4]
headline_2	Past deportations: Have any past deportations been successful?
pro_2_1	Mass deportation has been successful in the past	 Mass deportation has been successful in the past "It's time to deport illegals." Napa Valley Register Letter to the Editor. March 17th, 2010: "Bring back President Hoover, who in the Great Depression ordered the deportation of all illegal aliens to make jobs available to American citizens that desperately needed work! Bring back President Truman, who deported more than two million illegals after World War II to create jobs for returning veterans. Bring back President Eisenhower, who deported 13 million Mexican nationals. It was done so veterans would have a better chance at jobs. If they could deport the illegals back then, they could sure do it today."
con_2_1	No past administration deported close to 13 million illegals	 No past administration deported close to 13 million illegals "Hoover, Truman, and Ike." FactCheck.org. July 9th, 2010: "Q: Did Eisenhower deport 13 million illegal immigrants? Did Hoover and Truman use mass deportations to open jobs for U.S. citizens? A: No. Nothing close to 13 million persons were deported during any administration."
con_2_2	No past administration engaged in full deportation campaign	 No past administration engaged in full deportation campaign Mae M. Ngai, a historian now at Columbia University: "none of these presidents presided over any general deportation campaign."[5]
headline_3	Economics: Will the deportation of all illegal immigrants support the economy?
pro_3_1	Illegal immigrants crowd-out Americans for social services.	Illegal immigrants crowd-out Americans for social services. Because illegal immigrants use social services, they crow-out American citizens for those social services, in addition to making them more expensive. These government expenses include government welfare, housing, food, and shelter. This is an injustice, and a major economic expensive for US citizens, all which justify deportation.
pro_3_2	Exploiting cheap labor is no justification for allowing illegals	 Exploiting cheap labor is no justification for allowing illegals In a letter to Sen. William Fulbright, Eisenhower quoted a report in The New York Times that said, "The rise in illegal border-crossing by Mexican ‘wetbacks’ (rooted from the watery route taken by the Mexican immigrants across the Rio Grande) to a current rate of more than 1,000,000 cases a year has been accompanied by a curious relaxation in ethical standards extending all the way from the farmer-exploiters of this contraband labor to the highest levels of the Federal Government."[6]
pro_3_3	Costs of deportation made up for by savings to taxpayers	 Costs of deportation made up for by savings to taxpayers Edwin S. Rubenstein, MA, President of Edwin S. Rubenstein (ESR) Research Economic Consultants, in a Jan. 26, 2006 VDare.com article entitled "No-one’s Suggesting Mass Deportation—But It Would Pay For Itself,": "even if $206 billion was a reasonable cost estimate, mass deportation would be well worth it. Just consider the economic burden illegal aliens impose on the rest of us... Total fiscal benefits of deportation are thus estimated at $51 billion per year... At this rate, mass deportation would pay for itself in about four years. Plus, of course, we’d get America back."[7]
con_3_1	Mass deportation from US would be very expensive	 Mass deportation from US would be very expensive  A Center for American Progress study released in March of 2010 concluded that a strategy aimed at deporting the nation’s population of illegal immigrants would cost the government approximately $285 billion over five years. (A deportation-only policy would amount to $922 in new taxes for “every man, woman, and child in this country).” In separate research released in January, UCLA professor Raúl Hinojosa-Ojeda found that if undocumented immigrants were removed from the economy, it would reduce U.S. GDP by $2.6 trillion over ten years. 
con_3_2	Illegal immigrants significantly contribute to US economy	 Illegal immigrants significantly contribute to US economy "The costs of mass deportation." Center for American Progress. March 2010: "legalization of undocumented immigrants and more flexible immigration channels would significantly expand the economy—by a cumulative $1.5 trillion in gross domestic product over 10 years—through increased consumer spending, higher tax receipts, and other related factors. A deportation approach, by contrast, would have the cumulative effect of draining $2.5 trillion over 10 years from the U.S. economy. That is a $4 trillion swing in GDP depending on which policy approach we adopt."
con_3_3	Deporting illegals would be economically damaging	 Deporting illegals would be economically damaging "The GOP's Immigration Fumble." The Wall Street Journal. Aug. 4, 2002: "Deporting them for the duration of the application process would break up families. It also would disrupt businesses that depend on foreign labor for jobs that Americans don't want... The U.S. needs policies in place that recognize the economic realities that come with a long, porous border between an immensely rich country and a poor one. We need programs that will legalize the status of foreigners who are here already and contributing to our economy."[8]
con_3_4	Path to citizenship forces illegals to pay back taxes.	Path to citizenship forces illegals to pay back taxes. It is possible to reclaim lost tax revenue from illegals by integrating and forcing them to pay back taxes and fines. This is not possible if the US deports them all. 
headline_4	Morality: Is mass deportation of illegal immigrants morally acceptable?
pro_4_1	Illegal aliens have no moral right to remain in the US	 Illegal aliens have no moral right to remain in the US Ian de Silva. "How to Deport 10 Million Illegal Aliens." Human Events. May 18th, 2006: "As a legal immigrant and naturalized American who waited years for a green card, I mince no words when I say I have no sympathy whatsoever for illegal aliens. They have no right to be here, and their claim that their marches are the latest struggle in civil rights is poppycock. At this rate, a burglar who invades your house will have an equal claim of ownership to your house merely because he is inside the house."
pro_4_2	Illegals should be deported, not given amnesty	 Illegals should be deported, not given amnesty Jim Gilchrist, MBA, CPA, Founder and President of The Minuteman Project, in a May 31, 2007 Global Politician interview titled "Jim Gilchrist of Minuteman Project on Immigration, Terror, Elections": "I’m pro-deportation or if you want to use a nicer word, pro-repatriation. You cannot have a defeatist attitude towards the problem and have a solution. The repatriation of illegals must begin with a recognition of the problem and a plan. We may be called names, but the names our grandchildren will call us will be worse when they have to live in a destroyed country. There must be a multi-faceted approach, including arresting illegals and also cutting off social welfare programs to them."[9]
pro_4_3	Deporting illegal immigrants maintains moral goal of security.	Deporting illegal immigrants maintains moral goal of security. The primary purpose of the government is to maintain national security of its people. Deporting illegal immigrants, who potentially pose a security risk to US citizens, is morally consistent with US aims to protect its citizens. 
pro_4_4	Deporting illegals not akin to expulsion of Native American.	Deporting illegals not akin to expulsion of Native American. You can not use the trail of tears as a acceptable and relevant argument. The topic is whether deporting illegals is moral. The cheeroke were legally aloud to be there but after losing a war, the U.S.A kicked them out. Illegal aliens have no ethical claim to remain.
con_4_1	Deportation disrupts immigrant families	 Deportation disrupts immigrant families The Wall Street Journal, in its Aug. 4, 2002 editorial titled "The GOP's Immigration Fumble," offered the following: "Deporting them for the duration of the application process would break up families."
con_4_2	Trail of Tears demonstrates injustice of mass deportation.	Trail of Tears demonstrates injustice of mass deportation. In all some ninety-thousand Indians were relocated. The Cherokee were among the last to go. Some reluctantly agreed to move. Others were driven from their homes at bayonet point. Almost two thousand of them died along the route they remembered as the Trail of Tears. This demonstrates the tragedy that is any deportation event.
con_4_3	US can help shield illegal immigrants from hardship.	US can help shield illegal immigrants from hardship. As the world's leading superpower, it is the responsibility of the United States to serve as a haven for immigrants escaping devastating conditions. Many immigrants are fleeing from famine, war, political strife, or religious persecution. It is a responsibility, and/or merely a good act, to protect these people by allowing them to take refuge and start new lives in the United States.  
headline_5	Politics: Is deportation of illegal immigrants politically feasible?
pro_5_1	Democrats oppose deporting illegals because they are potential voters.	Democrats oppose deporting illegals because they are potential voters. William Ladd. "It isn’t impossible to stop illegal immigration." San Diego News Network: A More Perfect Union Blog. February 20, 2010: "I have long felt that the Democratic Party is not interested in deporting illegal aliens, because they are considered future democratic voters."
pro_5_2	Angering hispanics should not stop enforcing law, deporting illegals.	Angering hispanics should not stop enforcing law, deporting illegals. David Sheets. "Start deporting illegal immigrants." DesMoinesRegister. July 1, 2010: "The U.S.-Mexican border is allowed to be porous because of misguided attitudes that border security will anger Hispanics in the United States and the Mexican government. Failing to act, regardless of who is angered by enforcing the law, is an abdication of government responsibility to regulate the flow of people into and out of this nation's borders."
headline_6	Constitutionality: Does the Constitution support the deportation of illegal immigrants?
pro_6_1	The right to free movement only applies w/in borders.	The right to free movement only applies w/in borders. These rights are granted by the Constitution, so can only apply within the confines of those national, sovereign borders. 
con_6_1	Freedom of movement is an unalienable human right.	Freedom of movement is an unalienable human right. Whether written in the Constitution or not, the freedom of movement is an unalienable human right that must be protected.
headline_7	Opinion: Does public opinion support deporting illegal immigrants?
pro_7_1	Some polls find Americans support deporting illegals.	Some polls find Americans support deporting illegals. A CBS News/New York Times Poll dated September 2007 asked, "Should illegal immigrants be prosecuted and deported for being in the U.S. illegally, or shouldn't they?" In response, 69% of American citizens believed illegal immigrants should be deported for being in the U.S. illegally, while only 24% believed they should not.  
con_7_1	Americans oppose the deportation of all illegal immigrants.	Americans oppose the deportation of all illegal immigrants. A USA Today/Gallup Poll dated March 2007 asked, "Should the government deport all illegal immigrants back to their home country?" In response, only 24% of American citizens believed the government should deport all illegal immigrants. Furthermore, 59% of American citizens believed the government should allow illegal immigrants to remain in the United States and become U.S. citizens, but only if they meet certain requirements. 
