title	Breastfeeding in public
question	Should women breastfeed in public? Should it be legal and protected?
headline_1	Babies' health: Is breastfeeding important to babies' health?
pro_1_1	Breastfeeding is best for the health and development of babies	 Breastfeeding is best for the health and development of babies According to the World Health Organization, “Infants should be exclusively breastfed – i.e. receive only breast milk – for the first six months of life to achieve optimal growth, development and health. 'Exclusive breastfeeding' is defined as giving no other food or drink – not even water – except breast milk.”[1]
pro_1_2	Public breastfeeding allows feeding whenever baby is hungry	 Public breastfeeding allows feeding whenever baby is hungry Lindsey Nelson. "Breastfeeding Mothers Deserve Freedom of Movement." FirstRight Advisory Council Member on Opposing Views: "In order to achieve an optimal breastfeeding relationship, it is recommended that women breastfeed their child directly from the breast at the first hunger cues[2]. Children, especially the youngest babies, do not often have predictable feeding schedules and should not be required to wait to be fed or nurtured. It is not uncommon for a child to nurse for twenty or more minutes at a time and sometimes as often as once every hour or two[3]. Pumping milk into bottles for when the family is away from home, attempting to time outings around feedings or to slip away to a restroom or vehicle force mothers and children into isolation, may be detrimental to a successful breastfeeding relationship and are unrealistic expectations."
pro_1_3	Breastfeeding improves bond between mother and child	 Breastfeeding improves bond between mother and child Breastfeeding is considered an important part of creating the life-long emotional bond between child and mother. 
headline_2	Mothers' health: Is it important to mother's health?
pro_2_1	Breastfeeding improves health of mothers	 Breastfeeding improves health of mothers Nancy Solomon. "Breastfeeding in Public Is a Basic Civil Right." WEnews. August 7, 2002: "breastfeeding offers significant health benefits to nursing mothers, including reduced risks of breast and other types of cancers, as well as osteoporosis."
pro_2_2	Breastfeeding can help new mothers lose weight	 Breastfeeding can help new mothers lose weight Some believe that breastfeeding during the first six months of a child's life can help women lose weight during this period. This is because the body has to expend significant energy in producing milk for the child, and because the milk itself is made of significant quantities of fat, which must be derived from food that is eaten. If it is not given to the baby, it is retained inside a woman's body.
con_2_1	Breastfeeding does not necessarily help women lose weight	 Breastfeeding does not necessarily help women lose weight Salma Hayek argued: "I gained a lot of weight, I had gestational diabetes. The pregnancy was really difficult for me. I thought, as soon as this baby is out, I’m just going to lose the weight super fast, because I’m going to breast feed, and everybody tells you that if you breastfeed it’s going to come out like this, it’s a lie! It’s not true. Except for a couple of exceptions, the only reason people lose weight like that when they’re breastfeeding, it’s because they’re not eating and they’re breastfeeding, and this is not good for the baby. You know how they tell you it takes nine months to get it, nine months to lose it? There are shortcuts, but it’s not good for the baby. So I’m taking my time. I’ve lost a lot, most of the weight, and I’m very proud of it because it’s been really hard work studying what kind of food to eat that’s healthy for me, healthy for the baby. But I’m still losing even if it’s slow, and I’ve been working out… and the rest is going to go when it’s time to go.”[2]
headline_3	Legality: Should/is breastfeeding be legal/protect?
pro_3_1	Breastfeeding in public is legal almost everywhere	 Breastfeeding in public is legal almost everywhere Nancy Solomon. "Breastfeeding in Public Is a Basic Civil Right." WEnews. August 7, 2002: "What many people do not know is that breastfeeding in public is legal in every state. A mother does not need to "cover up" or go somewhere more private. More than half of states have laws specifically protecting this right, but even in those that do not, it is still legal to breastfeed in public."
headline_4	Decency: Is breastfeeding decent?
pro_4_1	Breasts are for breastfeeding, not sex	 Breasts are for breastfeeding, not sex Lindsey Nelson. "Breasts are For Breastfeeding." First Right Advisory Council Member on Opposing Views.com: "In the United States we are barraged with sexualized images of women, often prominently feature the breasts. From televised advertisements for lingerie to red carpet fashion to magazine covers, to video games, images of sexualized breasts are a fact of our daily lives. In contrast, images of mothers breastfeeding their children are decidedly rare. Despite our culture’s seeming insistence to the contrary, a woman's breasts are a functional body part intended to nourish our young." 
pro_4_2	Breastfeeding more decent than other displays of breasts	 Breastfeeding more decent than other displays of breasts Elizabeth Pantley. "There is More “Breast” in the Media Than Seen During Breastfeeding." On Opposing Views.com: "Breastfeeding women are routinely asked to cover their babies or retire to a bathroom stall in the name of decency. At the same time, magazines and movies routinely showcase breasts as glamorous. A woman at work often shows more cleavage than is exposed during breastfeeding, and a summer beach is a sea of nearly-naked breasts. This is a baffling double standard. Why are some people so afraid of seeing a breastfeeding mother?"
pro_4_3	Public breastfeeding spreads beneficial breastfeeding culture	 Public breastfeeding spreads beneficial breastfeeding culture Breastfeeding in public helps desensitize people to the practice, increasing their understanding of and tolerance for it over time. This helps make it easier for future generations engage in breastfeeding in public. And, it also generally spreads awareness about the important health benefits of breastfeeding and encourages more women and families to adopt this practice. This is nothing but good for society.
pro_4_4	Breastfeeding is by nature a discreet activity.	Breastfeeding is by nature a discreet activity. The baby's head is blocking the breast and certainly covering the nipple. Skin is often completely not visible, but if it is, it is only a very small amount, revealing nothing indecent, or what could not be seen on a beach or in a even gown.
pro_4_5	Breastfeeding is about the baby, not onlookers.	Breastfeeding is about the baby, not onlookers. When it's done in public, despite what people seem to think, it's all about the baby, not onlookers. 
pro_4_6	Public breastfeeders are not exhibitionists.	Public breastfeeders are not exhibitionists. Despite accusations, are rarely exhibitionists. 
pro_4_7	Onlookers can easily look away from breastfeeders.	Onlookers can easily look away from breastfeeders. If you don't want to see someone breastfeeding, don't look. It's simple. This is the responsibility of onlookers. Requesting that breastfeeders move is far more onerous a burden.
con_4_1	Breasts are also for sex; public breastfeeding indecent	 Breasts are also for sex; public breastfeeding indecent. Laurence Thomas. "Breastfeeding in Public and the Question of Sexism." Moral Health. 25 March 2009: "Unequivocally, breasts are also sex objects; and this is a fact that does not change simply in virtue of the reality that a woman is breast-feeding. [...] Of course, any decent man (not married to the woman) will look the other way should a woman pull out her breast in order to feed her child.  And that, interestingly, enough is just the point.  A decent man would look the other way precisely because he would want to avoid the schizophrenia of the situation, namely that of admiring the woman’s breast while she is in the midst of engaging in a motherly function.  The woman’s husband, on the other hand, might very well admire her breast while she is breastfeeding.  And there is a very straightforward way in which his doing so can be just right.  That is the woman whose breasts he caressed and fondled as she and he were engaged in the very act of love-making that gave rise to the very child that she is presently nursing." 
headline_5	Women's rights: Is public breastfeeding a right?
pro_5_1	Ban on breastfeeding violates female reproductive rights.	Ban on breastfeeding violates female reproductive rights. Women have a right to reproduce and a right to raise their children how they see fit. This includes taking actions to breast feed them, in order to optimize their child's health and growth. This is part of a woman's reproductive rights. 
pro_5_2	Breastfeeding in private is a barrier to movement	 Breastfeeding in private is a barrier to movement Nancy Solomon. "Breastfeeding in Public Is a Basic Civil Right." WEnews. August 7, 2002: "Asking a breastfeeding mother to nurse in a bathroom or cover herself up is an unnecessary barrier to breastfeeding and the mere fear of such intervention causes many mothers to either never begin breastfeeding or to prematurely wean their infants."
con_5_1	That breastfeeding is natural does not make it decent in public	 That breastfeeding is natural does not make it decent in public Having sex, nudity, and defecation are all natural. But, none of them are generally appropriate in public. The same applies to breastfeeding in public.
headline_6	Tolerance: Should breastfeeding be tolerated?
pro_6_1	Those offended by breastfeeding should tolerate it.	Those offended by breastfeeding should tolerate it. Many things offend individuals. Wearing baggy clothing, sporting tattoos or piercing, or wearing revealing clothing are all some of them. But, this does not justify banning these items. The same goes for breastfeeding. Discomfort is no justification of a ban.
pro_6_2	If breastfeeders must cover; meateaters should eat under table	 If breastfeeders must cover; meateaters should eat under table Nick Heskin. "Breasts are *For* Feeding Babies!" Answer Bag. April 26th, 2010: "Those who suggest that women should always use blankets or pump and feed a bottle when out (or use formula), or retire to their car or a restroom might as well suggest that those who eat meat should eat it under the table when out so as not to offend vegetarians."
pro_6_3	Breastfeeding is a privilege.	Breastfeeding is a privilege. Breastfeeding is necessary for a child who is in his mothers lap, but the others watching it do not feel as the child. All other people will find themselves looking at the breasts in a feel of the child's father. So it's a mans' privilege to watch his wife breastfeeding. Should all people interrupt in his rights? Or should we all be the virtual fathers of the child?
