title	Banning vuvuzela horns at the 2010 World Cup
question	Should the Vuvuzela horn be banned from the FIFA World Cup?
headline_1	Tradition: Are vuvuzelas an important S. African tradition?
pro_1_1	Singing is bigger part of tradition of S. Africa than Vuvuzela	 Singing is bigger part of tradition of S. Africa than Vuvuzela South African World Cup Organising committee chief executive Danny Jordaan said in June of 2010: "I would prefer singing. It's always been a great generator of a wonderful atmosphere in stadiums and I would try to encourage them to sing. In the days of the struggle (against apartheid) we were singing, all through our history it's our ability to sing that inspired and drove the emotions."[1]
con_1_1	The vuvuzela is a South African tradition	 The vuvuzela is a South African tradition The vuvuzela is all about South African pride and culture. Silencing it would silence this culture and damage the sense of identity among these people. 26-year-old Hendrik Maharala of Johannesburg, for example, said to the Huffington Post in June of 2010: "I feel like an African when I blow the vuvuzela."[2]
con_1_2	Vuvuzela ban would impose Western values on World Cup	 Vuvuzela ban would impose Western values on World Cup Ryan Bailey. "Vuvuzelas might yet be banned from World Cup." Yahoo Sports. June 13th, 2010: "we should not impose Western values on South Africa. A ban would rob the tournament of part of its cultural identity, leaving thousands of locals perplexed: could you imagine being told by an international body that you could no longer drink beer at American football games, or fall asleep during baseball? The South Africans wouldn't take too kindly to having a national institution removed."
headline_2	Players: Do vuvuzelas disrupt or encourage players?
pro_2_1	Vuvuzelas impair communication between players	 Vuvuzelas impair communication between players South Africa's star striker Steven Pienaar admitted "When we were playing Colombia we couldn't hear each other."[3] Other critics including Lionel Messi made this complaint.
pro_2_2	Vuvuzelas disrupt concentration of players.	Vuvuzelas disrupt concentration of players. Portugal's Cristiano Ronaldo went on record to state that the sound of the vuvuzelas disturbed the teams' concentration during World Cup play.[4]
pro_2_3	Vuvuzelas disrupt player's and other's sleep at night	 Vuvuzelas disrupt player's and other's sleep at night France captain Patrice Evra claimed that they performed poorly in a game in early June in the World Cup because the team could not get enough sleep. He said, "We can't sleep at night because of the vuvuzelas."[5]
con_2_1	The vuvuzela helps motivate players	 The vuvuzela helps motivate players 23-year-old Sazi Mhlwaitka said in June of 2010 for the Huffington Post: "It's our way to motivate players."
con_2_2	Vuvuzela sales are economically beneficial in S. Africa.	Vuvuzela sales are economically beneficial in S. Africa. The sales of vuvuzelas are massive, amounting to many hundreds of thousands around stadiums and even in rural towns away from these areas for use in bars and other public areas. This is economically beneficial for the vendors that sell them, and a significant factor to consider in support of the vuvuzela. 
headline_3	Viewing experience: Do vuvuzelas detract from or add to viewing experience?
pro_3_1	Vuvuzelas are generally very annoying.	Vuvuzelas are generally very annoying. Commentators have described the sound as "annoying" and "satanic" and compared it with "a stampede of noisy elephants", an elephant passing wind, "a deafening swarm of locusts", "a goat on the way to slaughter", and "a giant hive full of very angry bees".[6]
pro_3_2	Vuvuzelas drown out ebbs and flows of games.	Vuvuzelas drown out ebbs and flows of games. In the course of a game without the Vuvuzela, one gets a sense of how the crowd is reacting to action, with excitement and lows being conveyed through collective voices ebbing and flowing. The Vuvuzela completely drowns this out, undermining one of the unique experiences of watching futbol.
pro_3_3	Vuvuzelas drown out singing and other expressions of support.	Vuvuzelas drown out singing and other expressions of support. Some spectators have also complained that vuvuzelas drown out other expressions of support, such as singing, chanting, clapping, and oowing and ahhing.
pro_3_4	Vuvuzelas turn people off from watching and attending games	 Vuvuzelas turn people off from watching and attending games Ryan Bailey. "Vuvuzelas might yet be banned from World Cup." Yahoo Sports. June 13, 2010: The vuvuzela is "putting people off of tuning in (will you honestly feel enthused to watch Slovakia vs. Paraguay knowing you'll have to endure 90 minutes of the sound of an angry beehive going through a blender?)."[7]
con_3_1	Vuvuzelas essential to viewing experience in S. Africa.	Vuvuzelas essential to viewing experience in S. Africa. Some commentators have defended the vuvuzela as being an integral and unique part of South African football culture and say it adds to the atmosphere of the game. BBC sports commentator Farayi Mungazi said the sound of the horn was the "recognised sound of football in South Africa" and is "absolutely essential for an authentic South African footballing experience".[8]
con_3_2	The vuvuzela is an expression of happiness and emotion	 The vuvuzela is an expression of happiness and emotion 23-year-old Sazi Mhlwaitka said in June of 2010 for the Huffington Post: it helps "express happiness and how do you feel in the stadium."[9]
con_3_3	Many people enjoy the noise of the vuvuzela.	Many people enjoy the noise of the vuvuzela. A 21-year-old Jessica Dyrand said to the Huffington Post in June of 2010: "I love the noise."[10]
con_3_4	The vuvuzela supercharges the atmosphere at the world cup.	The vuvuzela supercharges the atmosphere at the world cup. The vuvuzela produces much more noise than the human voice, and so conveys a much greater level of excitement. This produces a higher level of excitement and positive atmosphere at these events. 
con_3_5	Guests at World Cup should embrace S. African vuvuzela tradition.	Guests at World Cup should embrace S. African vuvuzela tradition. World Cup local organizing committee spokesman Rich Mkhondo told a news conference at Soccer City stadium: "Vuvuzelas are here to stay and will never be banned. The history of the vuvuzela is ingrained in South Africa. As our guests please embrace our culture, please embrace the way we celebrate."[11]
headline_4	TV viewing: Does it undermine TV viewing?
pro_4_1	Vuvuzelas make it hard to hear commentators.	Vuvuzelas make it hard to hear commentators. The vuvuzelas are so loud that they even make it hard to hear the commentators on TV that are trying to describe the action of the game.
pro_4_2	Vuvuzela generally disrupts TV viewing of games.	Vuvuzela generally disrupts TV viewing of games. Many TV viewers are very annoyed by the vuvuzela and mute their TVs in order to avoid having to listen to it. This significantly diminishes the viewing experience, causing viewers to miss the ebbs and flows of the emotion of the fans and the commentating.
pro_4_3	They are a source of headaches.	They are a source of headaches. 
con_4_1	TV stations can easily adjust volume for vuvuzelas.	TV stations can easily adjust volume for vuvuzelas. TV stations are fully capable of moderating the volume so that the background noise of the vuvuzelas is reduced and so that the commentators can be better heard. This makes for an entirely appropriate viewing experience.
headline_5	National anthems: Can vuvuzelas disrupt national anthems?
pro_5_1	Vuvuzelas can disrupt national anthems and award ceremonies.	Vuvuzelas can disrupt national anthems and award ceremonies. There is supposed to be silence during national anthems and award ceremonies after the championship game. The vuvuzelas are a risk during these events, even if they are not always played at these times. During the opening ceremony for the 2010 World Cup, for example, the announcer had to ask fans using vuvuzelas to be quiet as he could not be heard.[12]
con_5_1	Fans respectfully avoid blowing vuvuzelas during anthems.	Fans respectfully avoid blowing vuvuzelas during anthems. There have not been major problems with fans blowing the vuvuzelas during national anthems and during ceremonies. Unless these problems exist, the vuvuzela should not be banned. Fans realize that if they blow the vuvuzela during these ceremonies, that their horns may be banned all together. And, generally, they have demonstrated that they can be trusted to act appropriately and with discretion in how and when to use the vuvuzela.
headline_6	Hearing damage: Do they cause damage to the ear?
pro_6_1	Vuvuzelas can cause hearing damage.	Vuvuzelas can cause hearing damage. Vuvuzelas can trumpet up to 127 decibels, which means they are fully capable of causing hearing damage to those at a game. This is particularly true for young children and babies, whose ears are more vulnerable. But, even for adults it can be damaging. This risk is important to avoid. Banning the Vuvuzela would be an appropriate protective measure in response.
pro_6_2	Vuvuzelas are very dangerous if blown directly into the ear.	Vuvuzelas are very dangerous if blown directly into the ear. Vuvuzelas can be blown directly into another person's ear, either accidently or sometimes on purpose (out of ignorance over the effects or out of malice to cause harm). In crowded areas, this occurs with relative frequency during the excitement of the game, particularly for fans seated directly in front of those blowing vuvuzelas. The damage that this can cause should be avoided by banning the vuvuzela.
pro_6_3	Vuvuzelas could lead to lawsuits over hearing loss.	Vuvuzelas could lead to lawsuits over hearing loss. Hearing damage done by the vuvuzelas could lead to lawsuits against FIFA for having allowed them.
con_6_1	Ear plugs can effectively limit any damage from vuvuzela.	Ear plugs can effectively limit any damage from vuvuzela. For anybody that is concerned about their ears, they can very easily and very cheaply purchase ear plugs. And, children can wear these or the more robust ear muffs. 
con_6_2	Fans can be trusted to use vuvuzelas safely.	Fans can be trusted to use vuvuzelas safely. Just as we can trust fans to avoid screaming directly into their friends or other fans' ears, we can generally trust them to avoid blowing their vuvuzelas directly into the ears of fans and colleagues. 
headline_7	Safety: Do vuvuzelas present a security threat in stadiums?
pro_7_1	Vuvuzelas can be used as weapons.	Vuvuzelas can be used as weapons. Vuvuzelas can be used to hit or even jab some one violently. This is particularly true if the are broken in sharp pieces. This is a risk that should be avoided, particularly at football matches that are known for generating significant frustration and anger among and between fans.
pro_7_2	Vuvuzelas can be thrown on the football field in anger.	Vuvuzelas can be thrown on the football field in anger. This is a risk to players, particularly since there are thousands of vuvuzelas in the stands.
con_7_1	Vuvuzelas are the least of safety concerns in stadiums.	Vuvuzelas are the least of safety concerns in stadiums. If someone wants to inflict violence on others at games, they can sneak in a knife, start a fight, and/or initiate a deadly stampede. The idea that a light-weight plastic horn could be a greater threat than these things is an absolute joke.
