title	Artificial life
question	
headline_1	Benefits: Are the benefits of artificial life significant?
pro_1_1	Artificial life hold major benefits for humanity	 Artificial life hold major benefits for humanity "And man made life." The Economist. May 20th 2010: "Synthetic biology [...] promises much. In the short term it promises better drugs, less thirsty crops (see article), greener fuels and even a rejuvenated chemical industry. In the longer term who knows what marvels could be designed and grown?"
pro_1_2	Synthetic biology can help fight climate change and pollution	 Synthetic biology can help fight climate change and pollution Rep. Henry Waxman (Democrat, California), Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said in a May 2010 hearing on the topic of synthetic biology: "Synthetic biology also has the potential to reduce our dependence on oil and to address climate change. Research is underway to develop microbes that would produce oil, giving us a renewable fuel that could be used interchangeably with gasoline without creating more global warming pollution. Research could also lead to oil-eating microbes, an application that, as the Gulf spill unfortunately demonstrates, would be extremely useful."[3]
pro_1_3	Artificial life can be tailored for specific needs	 Artificial life can be tailored for specific needs Daniel Gibson, one of the lead scientists creating the first man-made life at the J. Craig Venter Institute in Rockville, Maryland said, "With this approach we now have the ability to start with a DNA sequence and design organisms exactly like we want."[4]
pro_1_4	General statements in favor of artificial life	 General statements in favor of artificial life Pamela Silver, a systems biologist at Harvard Medical School: "I hope the day comes when making genomes is something everyone can do."[5]
con_1_1	Synthetic life driven by profits more than benefits to humanity	 Synthetic life driven by profits more than benefits to humanity Jim Thomas, a member of the Etc Group: "Synthetic biology is a high-risk, profit-driven field, building organisms out of parts that are still poorly understood."[6]
con_1_2	Humans engineered organisms for centuries; synthetic life adds little.	Humans engineered organisms for centuries; synthetic life adds little. In a BBC interview, the Nobel prize-winning geneticist Paul Nurse cast doubt on whether synthetic life will add much to current capabilities, pointing out that we already have powerful means to engineer organisms.[7]
headline_2	Risks: Can the risks be contained?
pro_2_1	Potential benefits of synthetic life far outweigh risks	 Potential benefits of synthetic life far outweigh risks Craig Venter said to the BBC in May of 2010: “Most people are in agreement that there is a slight increase in the potential for harm but there’s an exponential increase in the potential benefit to society.”[8]
pro_2_2	Synthetic organisms unlikely to survive out of lab	 Synthetic organisms unlikely to survive out of lab Ken MacLeod. "Humanity will thank heaven that this creator of synthetic life is playing God." Guardian. May 21, 2010: "Some conjure a scenario where synthetic organisms to which there's "no natural resistance" run amok. This seems misconceived. The biosphere comes up with natural resistance to entirely new organisms every day. Unless deliberately designed for survival, synthetic organisms that are released or escape into the wild will shortly be another organism's lunch." 
pro_2_3	Synthetic organisms no greater risk than natural ones	 Synthetic organisms no greater risk than natural ones David Ropeik. "Synthetic life: Perhaps all we have to fear is fear itself?" Guardian. May 26th, 2010: "People are generally more fearful of human-made risks, and less so of natural ones. Nature can indeed be red in tooth and claw, but new versions of plants, animals and microorganisms that evolve via Darwinian evolution don't upset us half as much as hybridisation by genetic engineering. That a bacterium can spontaneously evolve into a new version that can resist our arsenal of antibiotics doesn't seem to bother people as much as the possibility that we can now manufacture such mutants."
pro_2_4	Remote risks should not hold-up synthetic life	 Remote risks should not hold-up synthetic life Dr. Jon LaPook. "Creating 'Synthetic' Life." Huffington Post. June 3, 2010: "Nobody knows where it will all lead. You can bet your bottom dollar that not all of it will be good but that's been true of just about every human advance."
pro_2_5	Synthetic life needs regulation, but should be allowed	 Synthetic life needs regulation, but should be allowed John Harris. "Promise and risks from ‘life not as we know it’" Financial Times. May 26, 2010: "The dangers of making organisms that have never before existed (which already happens every day in biotech laboratories) will always be largely unknowable in advance. This is not a good enough reason to hold back if the expected benefits are significant. But it does mean we need robust regulation and licensing. The message is this: welcome the outstanding science, ensure good regulation in plenty of time and question an international intellectual property regime that can, disastrously, militate against fair access to the fruits of science." 
con_2_1	Man-made life poses unimaginable risks	 Man-made life poses unimaginable risks "And man made life." The Economist. May 20th 2010: "Have scientists got too big for their boots? Will their hubris bring Nemesis in due course? What horrors will come creeping out of the flask on the laboratory bench? [...] Such questions are not misplaced—and should give pause even to those, including this newspaper, who normally embrace advances in science with enthusiasm. The new biological science does have the potential to do great harm, as well as good. “Predator” and “disease” are just as much part of the biological vocabulary as “nurturing” and “growth”. But for good or ill it is here. Creating life is no longer the prerogative of gods."
con_2_2	Risks of artificial life could outweigh benefits	 Risks of artificial life could outweigh benefits Fiona Macrae. "Scientist accused of playing God." Daily Mail. June 3rd, 2010: "The potential is huge - but so are the dangers. An artificial species, created in the lab, might not 'obey the rules' of the natural world - after all, every living being on Earth has evolved over three billion years, when a myriad of competing species have had to share the same increasingly crowded environment. [...] It is possible to imagine a synthetic microbe going on the rampage, perhaps wiping out all the world's crop plants or even humanity itself."
con_2_3	Artificial life risky if released into environment	 Artificial life risky if released into environment Laura Hake, professor of biology, Boston College, Jesuit Research University, said on BBC: "I think that the synthetic cell that has just been created is a very exciting basic science breakthrough. I have concerns though that there will be a rush to release it into a natural environment. [...] There are many disturbing examples of other types of artificial constructions, like GEO crops and over-use of pesticides, that are leading to very significant problems in the balance that needs to be maintained in our ecosystem - for maintaining a healthy planet."[9]
con_2_4	Regulation cannot contain great unknowns of synthetic biology.	Regulation cannot contain great unknowns of synthetic biology. Many things cannot be determined nor regulated regarding synthetic biology. The effects of certain microbes and the possibility of bio-hackers and bio-terrorists are things regulations cannot necessarily contain. 
headline_3	Bioterrorism: Is artificial life safe from use in bioterrorism?
pro_3_1	Threat of bio-terrorism is no greater than natural threats	 Threat of bio-terrorism is no greater than natural threats While the threat of bio-terrorism "may be significant," according to Ken MacLeod in the Guardian, it's "not in principle greater than those posed by natural organisms" that already exist.[10] 
pro_3_2	Any scientific advance can be abused; synthetic life no different	 Any scientific advance can be abused; synthetic life no different "Synthetic cells: It's life, but not as we know it." The Guardian. May 22, 2010: "While it is true that every new process in the physical as in the biological sciences may lead to unanticipated, potentially harmful novelties, it is also the case that, in the end, any scientific advance can potentially be abused for ill as well as used for good." 
pro_3_3	More good synthetic biologists can outwit malevolent ones	 More good synthetic biologists can outwit malevolent ones "And man made life." The Economist. May 20th 2010: "Thoughtful observers of synthetic biology favour a different approach: openness. This avoids shutting out the good in a belated attempt to prevent the bad. Knowledge cannot be unlearned, so the best way to oppose the villains is to have lots of heroes on your side. Then, when a problem arises, an answer can be found quickly."
pro_3_4	Threat of terrorists engaging in synthetic biology is remote	 Threat of terrorists engaging in synthetic biology is remote 
con_3_1	Artificial life presents risk of bioterrorism	 Artificial life presents risk of bioterrorism Jim Thomas, a member of the Etc Group: "We know that lab-created life-forms can escape and become biological weapons, and that their use threatens existing natural biodiversity."[11]
con_3_2	Artificial life worsens specter of biological war	 Artificial life worsens specter of biological war Devinder Sharma. "Artificial Life Is Simply Not Another Breaking News, It Has Grave Implications for Humanity." Ground Reality. May 23rd, 2010: "The day is also not far away when biological warfare will acquire a new meaning, with human, animal and bacterial clones and chimeras roaming the planet. The latest version of Avtar will be a reflection of the more deadly and sinister forms that synthetic life can create. This time, the creator of the world, the ultimate power (if religious scriptures are to be believed) will not come down on the Earth to get rid of this evil force."
headline_4	Playing God/nature: Is artificial life consistent with God/nature?
pro_4_1	Humanity always played God; synthetic life no different	 Humanity always "played God"; synthetic life no different Ken MacLeod. "Humanity will thank heaven that this creator of synthetic life is playing God." guardian.co.uk. May 21, 2010: "But there are no new ethical problems here. Humanity has been playing God with animals and plants since the invention of agriculture, and our domesticated species are already the most prevalent (of their kind) on the planet. Venter has, in a neat reverse application of the precautionary principle, promoted bioethical debate about each step of his programme well before he carried them out."
pro_4_2	Humans wouldn't have to play God if God wasn't so unfair	 Humans wouldn't have to "play God" if God wasn't so unfair John Harris. "Promise and risks from ‘life not as we know it’" Financial Times. May 26 2010: "The claim to have created synthetic life has been characterised pejoratively as playing “God”. This is a poor substitute for an argument. One obvious consideration is that we would not have to play God if the deity herself had not made such an abject mess of things."
pro_4_3	Synthetic life is part of God's creativity	 Synthetic life is part of "God's creativity" Rev. Jose Gabriel Funes, the Vatican's chief astronomer and scientific adviser to Pope Benedict, wrote in the Vatican newspaper, L'Obsservatore Romano, in 2008 about the possibility of extraterrestrial life: "Just as there is a multiplicity of creatures on Earth, there can be other beings, even intelligent, created by God. This is not in contrast with our faith because we can't put limits on God's creative freedom."[12] From this, it can be extrapolated that man creating life is also part of "God's creativity". Why limit God's creativity to exclude acts of man. Are not humans creatures of God and are not their actions (generally) part of God's design?
pro_4_4	Artificial life is a profound symbol of man's mastery over nature	 Artificial life is a profound symbol of man's mastery over nature "And man made life." The Economist. May 20th 2010: "That ability would prove mankind’s mastery over nature in a way more profound than even the detonation of the first atomic bomb. The bomb, however justified in the context of the second world war, was purely destructive. Biology is about nurturing and growth."
pro_4_5	Artificial life rightly questions concept of soul	 Artificial life rightly questions concept of soul "Synthetic life zaps 'the soul'." Japan Times. June 13, 2010: "The idea of vitalism and the soul — anyway long ignored by most scientists, but which survives among theologians — is now discredited, dead. [...] A century ago, the French philosopher Henri-Louis Bergson stated that there was 'elan vital,' a 'vital force,' that animated living things. You could never take inorganic things (such as DNA molecules) and somehow imbue them with this vital force, Bergson said. [...] Venter's remarkable breakthrough shows that Bergson was wrong."
pro_4_6	Synthetic biology rightly refutes divinity of life	 Synthetic biology rightly refutes "divinity of life" Ken MacLeod. "Humanity will thank heaven that this creator of synthetic life is playing God." Guardian. May 21, 2010: "It's a tremendous achievement of human ingenuity and skill. And there's something wonderfully confirmatory of mechanistic materialism in the building of a genome from chemically synthesised molecules, that genome running a cell, and that cell replicating to a point where no trace of the original cell's cytoplasm is left in its descendants. This lays to rest, with a satisfying finality, the ghost of vitalism – the spooky, whiffy doctrine that there is some essence of life not captured by "reductionist" biochemistry."
con_4_1	Man-made life plays God and nature	 Man-made life plays God and nature Instead of allowing life to emerge through natural processes and perhaps by God's will, man is trying to take the initiative on its own. This is highly arrogant and risky. Never before has man attempted to perform life-creating tasks.
con_4_2	Synthetic life will result in an artificial race amidst us	 Synthetic life will result in an artificial race amidst us Devinder Sharma. "Artificial Life Is Simply Not Another Breaking News, It Has Grave Implications for Humanity." Ground Reality. May 23rd, 2010: "It is the beginning of a Grave New World. The day is not far away when we will have a parallel form of life, another living race amidst us. Whenever man has tried to imbibe genetic engineering from Gods, as is evident from Ramayana and Mahabharta, the two great Indian epics, he has only turned into an evil force."
con_4_3	Man can't create life, only manipulate it	 Man can't create life, only manipulate it John Haas, President of the National Catholic Bioethics Center on BBC, said: "We don't think you can create life. One can modify and manipulate already existing biological material. No-one [is] able to create life from scratch. There have been claims before that life has been created."[14]
