title	Instant replay in baseball
question	Should instant replay call reviews be implemented in baseball?
headline_1	Tradition: Can instant replay be reconciled with tradition?
pro_1_1	Tradition of baseball is flexible and can include instant replay	 Tradition of baseball is flexible and can include instant replay Mike Celizik. "Beyond time for baseball to use instant replay." NBC. May 22, 2008: "Of course, tradition is a flexible concept. The founders also turned down the idea of night games because it was hard to illuminate a field using gas lights, kerosene lanterns and bonfires. But their descendants, who for many years fought the concept of night baseball, finally embraced it when they realized that they could sell more tickets and make more money playing at night – once science found a way to chase away the darkness."
pro_1_2	Allowing umpires to blow calls/games is a bad tradition	 Allowing umpires to blow calls/games is a bad tradition 
pro_1_3	Baseball has replay for boundary calls, why not for other calls?	 Baseball has replay for boundary calls, why not for other calls?  Tradition of baseball is not so sacred that it prevented instant replay from being implemented in 2008 for "boundary calls," such as determining whether balls passed over the fence in a home run, or hit the top of the wall, whether potential home runs were fair or foul, and whether there was fan interference. It has been used 54 times since its introduction in August 2008, and calls were overturned in 22 cases. Clearly, the "tradition" of baseball was broken in these cases, why not continue the process through to its natural extension in having instant replay in other parts of the game, with appropriate limits of course.
pro_1_4	Instant replay is in the best interests of the game.	Instant replay is in "the best interests of the game." This clause is a key element of baseball. It drives all of the rule-making decisions on the game. And, it is clear that a modest instant replay system is in the best interests of the game. It would avoid incorrect calls that have a devastating and unfair consequence on games, players, and fans. This is the most compelling "interest" to consider. All other arguments are based on weaker arguments about "time-consumed" by instant replay (which would amount to only a couple minutes per game if any time at all) and "tradition" (which is totally bogus). 
pro_1_5	General statements in favor of instant replay in baseball	 General statements in favor of instant replay in baseball Don Denkinger, a famous umpire whose questionable call in the 1985 World Series helped the Kansas City Royals come back to beat the St. Louis Cardinals, said in 2010: "There are so many areas you can use instant replay. Maybe instant replay can clean things up. If a play is missed, it can be corrected. I didn't feel that way in '85, but I feel that way now."[1]
con_1_1	Tradition of umpire calls in baseball should be left alone	 Tradition of umpire calls in baseball should be left alone Tim McCarver, the veteran catcher who will call his 20th World Series on TV and his 12th for Fox, acknowledged that 2009 was a “dreadful” postseason for umpires but does not believe replay should be used to review out or safe calls. “Outside of (boundary calls), I think the game should be left alone.”[2]
con_1_2	Baseball has done just fine without instant replay	 Baseball has done just fine without instant replay Ross Douthat. "Against Instant Replay" New York Times. June 3, 2010: "To avoid the extraordinary bad calls, you have to start overturning the quotidian bad calls, the gaffes and brain cramps that have always been part of the warp and woof of the game and that have never detracted a whit from anyone’s enjoyment of it." 
headline_2	Humanity: Is instant replay consistent with the humanity of baseball?
pro_2_1	Instant replay does not diminish human element of baseball	 Instant replay does not diminish human element of baseball Instant replay is merely a tool (like a bat or a baseball mit) that assists in a human activity. It does not change the facts on the grounds as they are played out by humans. It merely allows humans to go back an make sure that the event is properly judged. And, the idea that "machines will be deciding the outcome" is absolutely non-sensical. Has this occurred in all the other sports that institute instant replay? No! Instead, instant replay helps advance the very real human feelings of merit, justice, and finality that should accompany sports. 
pro_2_2	Instant replay makes game more about players, less about umps	 Instant replay makes game more about players, less about umps 
pro_2_3	Instant replays can be exciting for fans.	Instant replays can be exciting for fans. Examining instant replay in the stands or while watching TV can be exciting for fans as they get to see the play unfold in slow motion and the rules of the game unfold in detailed, fair, real-time analysis. It is not a slog for fans. It is actually entertaining, adding rather than subtracting from the experience.
con_2_1	Machines shouldn't be determining calls in baseball	 Machines shouldn't be determining calls in baseball Mark Coatney. "The Greatness and Perfection of Missing the Call." Newsweek. June 3, 2010: "Then there's the aesthetic argument, which is why—after athletes sweat and fight it out in a very human arena—should the contest be decided by some deus ex machina that just descends from above and declares, "Beep! This is who won"? It's the same reason no one really cares about chess anymore; everyone knows the computer always wins."
con_2_2	Fallible umpire calls are part of the drama of baseball	 Fallible umpire calls are part of the drama of baseball Many people actually enjoy the drama that comes with the fallibility of umpire's calls, and the importance placed on them making the right call, without the aid of instant replay. This sub-plot in baseball in unique and should be preserved. 
headline_3	For baseball: Does baseball lend itself well to instant replay?
pro_3_1	Baseball lends itself well to instant replay	 Baseball lends itself well to instant replay Thomas Boswell. "The right call: More replays." Washington Times. November 10th, 2009: "how long did it take for millions of viewers, partisans in bars and TV announcers to know what the correct call should be? Often, they knew within 20 seconds and almost always within a minute. Has even one controversial play this October required the five, six or seven minutes that NFL replays frequently take? No, I don't think so. [...] Baseball fears that it will adopt replay and inherit the problems of the NFL. Far more likely, it would discover that replay is much better suited to baseball -- both in accuracy and speed -- than any other sport."
pro_3_2	Instant replay works in other sports, why not baseball?	 Instant replay works in other sports, why not baseball? US President Barack Obama said in June of 2010: "I think that baseball is going to have to take a look at what football and basketball already decided, which is replay may in some cases be appropriate."[3]
pro_3_3	Calls for instant replay rise with each bad call (it's inevitable).	Calls for instant replay rise with each bad call (it's inevitable). Every year in baseball, a number of serious bad calls are made that create a ground-swell of calls for the implementation of instant replay. These calls should be heeded sooner rather than later, as they will only continue to grow and undermine the legitimacy of MLB baseball.
con_3_1	Baseball transcends perfection; instant replay undermines that	 Baseball transcends perfection; instant replay undermines that Mark Coatney. "The Greatness and Perfection of Missing the Call." Newsweek. June 3, 2010: "the essence of sport is the pursuit of transcending imperfection. Why we play, why we watch, is for that one-in-a-million chance that something goes incredibly, impossibly right. If we want perfect-every-time scripting, we'd go to the theater." 
con_3_2	Instant replay should not exist for sake of personal achievements	 Instant replay should not exist for sake of personal achievements Steve Hirsch. "Why instant replay is unnecessary." Huffington Post. June 4, 2010: "Even if Major League Baseball decided to implement the use of instant replay, this is hardly the game that should be the deciding factor [the Detroit Pitcher Armando Gallaraga's Perfect Game in June of 2010]. In the end, the only thing that was affected by Jim Joyce's botched call was a personal achievement. The final score was the same and the winning and losing pitchers remained unchanged. [...] If a fan or a player is more concerned with a personal achievement than how their teams finishes in the standings, then that person needs to reorganize its priorities during a game."
con_3_3	Instant replay would force overturning of small calls too	 Instant replay would force overturning of small calls too Ross Douthat. "Against Instant Replay." New York Times. June 3, 2010: "To avoid the extraordinary bad calls, you have to start overturning the quotidian bad calls, the gaffes and brain cramps that have always been part of the warp and woof of the game and that have never detracted a whit from anyone’s enjoyment of it. And I’m pretty sure that would be a mistake."
headline_4	Rarity: Does the rarity of bad calls matter?
pro_4_1	Getting rare/important calls right justifies replay.	Getting rare/important calls right justifies replay. Events like Galarraga's perfect game are rare (although not that rare). But, there rarity is not an argument against instant replay. The rare and very important call is hugely important. It is important to the fans, important to the players, and important to the legitimacy of baseball. Ensuring that these events are called correctly and fairly is well worth any of the much smaller costs that might come with instituting an instant replay system. 
pro_4_2	Enough controversial calls occur in baseball to justify replay	 Enough controversial calls occur in baseball to justify replay Don Hunsberger. "Let's bring meaningful instant replay to baseball" Daily Commercial. June 6th, 2010: "If Joyce's was the only error of its kind [that cost Detroit pitcher Armando Galarraga his perfect game in June of 2010], there would be no controversy. Baseball's ruling elite presumably would get to together and figure out a way to prevent it from happening again. [...] But the situation in Detroit did not occur in a vacuum. On Tuesday night in Toronto, the Tampa Bay Rays were rallying against the Toronto Blue Jays late in the game when third-base umpire Angel Hernandez ruled that Sean Rodriguez missed third base while scoring on a Ben Zobrist single."
pro_4_3	Instant replay justified to prevent another Galarraga call	 Instant replay justified to prevent another Galarraga call Jamie Samuelsen. "Galarraga call proves that time has come for replay in baseball." Freep.com. June 4th, 2010: "none of us have ever witnessed a play that had such a major impact on history. It didn’t alter a game — the Tigers were going to win that thing regardless. But it took history away from Armando Galarraga. And it may change the course of baseball history. This is the smoking gun that should lead to instant replay in Major League Baseball. There’s no turning back now. The game started as a quiet late spring game between two scuffling teams. It ended as the No. 1 news story in America. It trumped the oil spill. It trumped the silly little waste of time and money up on Mackinac Island. It trumped anything that President Obama said or did. Just look at Twitter — 99.9% of the world’s population didn’t know who Jim Joyce was at 8:50 p.m. Wednesday night. By 9:50, he was the number one trending topic on the social networking site." Another event like this needs to be avoided in the future, by instituting instant replay." 
con_4_1	Not enough important bad calls occur to justify instant replay	 Not enough important bad calls occur to justify instant replay Bill Pollock. "No need for instant replay in baseball." Missouri Net. June 4, 2010: "this call perfectly illustrates my point…that call ultimately did not affect the score of the game, the final outcome…and that has long been my stand against replay for umpires, plus to tie into that, I have not heard a plan yet that is rock solid for baseball. So while bad or missed calls happen, they are not happening with a frequency that has affected wins and losses at enough of a rate to raise enough concern. Just to add technology because it is there, does not mean it’s the best plan."
con_4_2	Bad calls balance each other out over the course of the season.	Bad calls balance each other out over the course of the season. Steve Hirsch. "Why instant replay is unnecessary." Huffington Post. June 4, 2010: "An umpire is bound to miss at least a few of them. After all, these guys aren't perfect. Every baseball fan knows that these plays balance out over the course of a season and that you can't get riled up over one play just because it may have had an impact on the final score. In a season, every team will have those games they should have won and those they should have lost. The problem is that we tend to only remember the games we should have won because "if we had only won that game...", fill in the blank." 
headline_5	Time: Could the time consumed by instant replay be limited?
pro_5_1	Many replay systems could adequately reduce time consumed.	Many replay systems could adequately reduce time consumed. One option is to implement the NFL’s red-flag system, which limits teams to two replays per game. Another is a broader option that allows operators in MLB’s central replay office to stop the game to review a call. Both of these systems would significantly limit the time consumed by a replay system. The maximum time added would be something like 5 minutes to a game, in exceptional circumstances. This is well worth ensuring games are won fairly. 
con_5_1	Instant replay will make baseball games too long	 Instant replay will make baseball games too long Steve Hirsch. "Why instant replay is unnecessary." Huffington Post. June 4, 2010: "The most used argument against instant replay is that it would increase the length of games, which is clearly true. The more managers protest, the more plays get reviewed, and the more games get prolonged. I love baseball more than anyone I know, but even I don't want baseball games lasting longer than they already do."
headline_6	Controversies: Are there enough controversial calls to justify replay?
pro_6_1	Instant replay would better legitimize MLB and game outcomes	 Instant replay would better legitimize MLB and game outcomes Every time a bad call is made that effects the outcome of a game in some way, the legitimacy of MLB and its umpires is damaged. When a team advances in the playoffs under the heir of suspicion of a bad call aiding their way, it damages the credibility of the system, the MLB, and baseball in general. This is purely unhealthy, with no redeeming qualities.
pro_6_2	Instant replay ensures fan/player feelings of justice, over anger	 Instant replay ensures fan/player feelings of justice, over anger Modern society is based on the idea of justice and merit. In sport, the better team should win. Chance in the rules and umpiring should not play a part. When fans find conclusive evidence that a call has been missed and that their team should have won (or whatever), feelings of injustice can turn into rage. This was seen on display with Galarraga's 2010 perfect game that was robbed from him by a bad call. The fans were livid. These feelings can and should be avoided by introducing instant replay into baseball.  
pro_6_3	Instant replay ends umpire shame of making decisive, bad calls	 Instant replay ends umpire shame of making decisive, bad calls Don Denkinger, a famous umpire whose questionable call in the 1985 World Series helped the Kansas City Royals come back to beat the St. Louis Cardinals, said in 2010: "I had 30 great years ... and I had one call that's all anybody ever wants to talk about. It's not right. But it's the way the game's played, and that's what happens."[4] He now believes in instant replay, and instant replay would have removed the prospect that he would have to live with decades of shame. 
pro_6_4	Instant replay would reduce fights between coaches and umpires.	Instant replay would reduce fights between coaches and umpires. Bad calls are typically the reason for fights or shouting matches breaking out between coaches and umpires. Instant replay would reduce the occurrence of these events, making it much harder for a coach to complain about a call. If instant replay confirms that it is accurate, what can the coach complain about?
con_6_1	Even replay doesn't always resolve baseball calls	 Even replay doesn't always resolve baseball calls Mark Coatney. "The Greatness and Perfection of Missing the Call." Newsweek. June 3, 2010: "even with replay, sometimes we don't even really know the result. Michael Phelps was awarded one gold medal in Beijing on a race that was so close, even the pool's electronic systems couldn't really determine the winner; basically it was flip a coin. Judgment call." 
headline_7	Instant-replay ump: Should baseball have a dedicated instant replay umpire?
pro_7_1	Baseball should have a dedicated instant replay umpire	 Baseball should have a dedicated instant replay umpire Thomas Boswell. "The right call: More replays." Washington Times. November 10th, 2009: "there should be an extra umpire in a TV booth who communicates with the chief ump on the field. And that extra ump should have the authority, if he deems it necessary, to review any close or controversial play."
headline_8	Exceptions: Can exceptions be made to the instant replay rules?
pro_8_1	Continuation plays can of course be exempt from instant replay	 "Continuation plays" can of course be exempt from instant replay Don Hunsberger. "Let's bring meaningful instant replay to baseball" Daily Commercial. June 6th, 2010: "There are, of course, the 'continuation plays' -- unique to baseball -- that can never be subject to replays because more than one thing is happening and the events are interdependent. For example, if the umpire calls a ball foul and replay shows it was fair and the decision is overturned by replay, how do you handle the base runners? These and similar situations must be dealt with before arriving at a perfect solution."
