title	Israeli blockade of Gaza
question	
headline_1	Legality: Is the blockade legal under international law?
pro_1_1	Israeli blockade of Gaza is legal during conflict with Hamas	 Israeli blockade of Gaza is legal during conflict with Hamas Leslie Gelb. "Israel was right." The Daily Beast. May 31, 2010: "Regarding international law, blockades are quite legal. The United States and Britain were at war with Germany and Japan and blockaded them. I can't remember international lawyers saying those blockades were illegal—even though they took place on the high seas in international waters. There would be a general violation only if the hostile actions against the ships took place in waters under the jurisdiction of another sovereign state. Thus, for example, if the Israelis stopped the ships in Egyptian waters, that would have been a violation." Harvard Law School Professor Alan Dershowitz, Chicago Law School Professor Eric Posner, and Johns Hopkins international law Professor Ruth Wedgwood all argue that the blockade is legal." 
pro_1_2	Blockade is necessary to prevent smuggled weapons	 Blockade is necessary to prevent smuggled weapons "New Ship Headed for Gaza Despite Israeli Prohibitions". News Blaze. The Israel Project. June 2010 Legal expert Sarah Weiss Maudi: "The Hamas regime has bombarded Israeli communities in Israel, Israeli civilians in Israel, with weapons that are smuggled to Gaza by various routes, and one of these routes is the sea. Under international law a maritime blockade is a recognized and legitimate tool that can be used during an armed conflict."
pro_1_3	Israel has right to know what enters Gaza during conflict	 Israel has right to know what enters Gaza during conflict In an interview with Charlie Rose after the flotilla raid, Vice President Joe Biden said: "You can argue whether Israel should have dropped people onto that ship or not ... but the truth of the matter is, Israel has a right to know — they're at war with Hamas — has a right to know whether or not arms are being smuggled in."[1]
pro_1_4	Israel stopped occupying Gaza in 2005; blockade is legal.	Israel stopped occupying Gaza in 2005; blockade is legal. Since 2005 Israel asserts that it ended its occupation of Gaza when it disengaged from the coastal strip in 2005. After Israel's unilateral disengagement plan from the Gaza strip, Israel no longer occupied Gaza with troops.
pro_1_5	Gaza blockade is consistent with precedents of WWII blockades	 Gaza blockade is consistent with precedents of WWII blockades "WSJIDEBATE: Israel’s Gaza Blockade Is Justified." Shikhar "Singh: Yes, Legally and Morally" on Wall Street Journal. June 8th, 2010: "given a country’s right to security and self-preservation, a blockade could be affected in international waters. This has been practice for sometime now, including when Britain and the U.S. blockaded Germany and Japan."
con_1_1	Israel is occupying Gaza; blockade is illegal	 Israel is occupying Gaza; blockade is illegal Billie Bender. "Was Israel’s flotilla raid illegal or legally?" Tufts Roundtable. June 2nd, 2010: "If you support Gaza. Then you believe that Israel is 'occupying' Gaza, and Israel is in violation of international law because it is denying Gaza’s sovereign right to trade and aid." 
con_1_2	Cease-fire invalideates blockade-justification of war w/ Hamas	 Cease-fire invalideates blockade-justification of "war" w/ Hamas Marcelo Kohen, a law professor at Geneva’s Graduate Institute of International Studies, argued that "There is also at present a cease-fire on Gaza. Under [Israel's] logic one could maintain a maritime blockade unendingly. It only requires one party to consider itself as being in a ‘state of war.'" Therefore, Israel cannot justify its blockade and flotilla-raid in international waters on the grounds that it is "at war" or "in conflict" with Hamas.
con_1_3	Gaza blockade harms too many civilians for small military gains.	Gaza blockade harms too many civilians for small military gains. Douglas Guilfoyle, a specialist in international and maritime law at University College London: "The real question is: 'Is the blockade itself lawful?' Everything else turns on that [...] [The blockade is illegal] if it will cause excessive damage to the civilian population in relation to the military advantage gained... so therefore intercepting a vessel on the high seas to support or enforce the blockade would not be lawful."[2]
con_1_4	Gaza blockade is collective punishment for Hamas rule	 Gaza blockade is collective punishment for Hamas rule Amnesty International said that “The blockade constitutes collective punishment under international law and must be lifted immediately.” 
con_1_5	Israel controls too much of Gaza; it is an occupier.	Israel controls too much of Gaza; it is an occupier. After Israel's unilateral disengagement plan from the Gaza strip, Israel no longer occupied Gaza with troops. But, Israel has retained control over Gaza's airspace and coastline, and over its own border with the territory. Egypt has control of its border with Gaza (except for the tunnels). Israel and Egypt also control the flow of goods in and out. Israel controls fuel imports to Gaza, and also controls the majority of electricity used in Gaza (approximately 60%), which it supplies from the Israeli electrical grid. So, while Israel may not have troops in Gaza any more, it has too much control over too many areas of life there. It is, effectively, an occupier, and its blockade should be seen in this context.
con_1_6	Israel could have legally sunk Gaza flotilla for breaking blockade.	Israel could have legally sunk Gaza flotilla for breaking blockade. Eric Posner. "The Gaza Blockade and International Law." The Wall Street Journal. June 4th, 2010: "Ships that run blockades may be attacked and sunk under international law. If Israel had exercised that right, far more than nine people would have been killed."
con_1_7	General statements against Israeli blockade of Gaza	 General statements against Israeli blockade of Gaza William Hague, June 1, 2010: "There can be no better response from the international community to this tragedy than to achieve urgently a durable resolution to the Gaza crisis."[3] 
con_1_8	Controlling air, land, sea means occupation.	Controlling air, land, sea means "occupation." According to international law, if you control the land, the air, and the sea borders of a state, then it is considered under occupation regardless of whether you are actually there.  By the Geneva conventions, occupation is illegal and should be resisted. 
headline_2	Humanitarian: Is the blockade consistent with humanitarian principles?
pro_2_1	Sanctions/blockades always harm civilians; Gaza blockade fine	 Sanctions/blockades always harm civilians; Gaza blockade fine "Israel's Gaza blockade: It works." LA Times. June 8th, 2010: "why isn't the world outraged by the wholesale deprivation we're inflicting on the North Koreans? Why do we even bother talking about sanctions against Iran, which will surely hurt the average Iranian more than the mullahs and the kleptocrats running the Revolutionary Guard. [...] Only one blockade is deemed indefensibly beyond the pale: Israel's blockade of Gaza. Why? Because it imposes 'collective punishment.'" 
pro_2_2	Israel blockade allows humanitarian aid into Gaza	 Israel blockade allows humanitarian aid into Gaza Israeli PM, Benjamin Netanyahu: "Here's our policy. Humanitarian and other goods can come in. Weapons and war materials cannot. And we do let civilian goods get into Gaza."
pro_2_3	No humanitarian crisis in Gaza; blockade is OK	 No humanitarian crisis in Gaza; blockade is OK Israeli PM, Benjamin Netanyahu: "There is no humanitarian crisis in Gaza. Each week, an average of 10,000 tons of goods go into Gaza. There's no shortage of food, medicine, or other goods."
pro_2_4	Blockade strains Gazans, but does not cause humanitarian crisis.	Blockade strains Gazans, but does not cause humanitarian crisis. Speaking in 2006, Dov Weisglass, an advisor to Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, said that, "The idea is to put the Palestinians on a diet, but not to make them die of hunger."[4]
pro_2_5	Hamas is cause of strife in Gaza, not Israel	 Hamas is cause of strife in Gaza, not Israel Hamas refuses to accept from Israel the aid offloaded from the flotilla. [5]. This either means that there is no crisis in Gaza, or that it is actively caused by Hamas. Netanyahu: "Why is life flourishing in the West Bank? Because it's not under the control of a terrorist organization!"
pro_2_6	Damaging Hamas economically is a legitimate security interests	 Damaging Hamas economically is a legitimate security interests "WSJIDEBATE: Israel’s Gaza Blockade Is Justified. Shikhar Singh: Yes, Legally and Morally." June 8th, 2010: "There has been shrill criticism of the blockade and its effectiveness in the long term. Much of that maybe true but the point is this: if Israel perceives it can minimize the threat from Hamas using economic coercion, then that becomes central to its security concern whether it is successful or not. In that sense, the economic blockade (contestable as it may be), is part of Israel’s security apparatus."
con_2_1	UN called Gaza blockade illegal human rights violation	 UN called Gaza blockade illegal human rights violation On January 24, 2008, the United Nations Human Rights Council released a statement calling for Israel to lift its siege on the Gaza Strip, allow the continued supply of food, fuel, and medicine, and reopen border crossings.[6] According to the Jerusalem Post, this was the 15th time in less than two years the council condemned Israel for its human rights record regarding the Palestinian territories.[7] The proceedings were boycotted by Israel and the United States.
con_2_2	Gaza blockade causes economic and humanitarian suffering	 Gaza blockade causes economic and humanitarian suffering Gregg Carlstrom. "Gaza's real humanitarian crisis." Al Jazeera. June 3, 2010. Al Jazeera: "Israel usually allows 81 items into Gaza, a list which is subject to revision on a near-daily basis. [...] A 2008 report from the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) found that 70 per cent of Gaza's population suffered from 'food insecurity.' As Al Jazeera's Sherine Tadros reported last week, the Israeli authorities allow little meat and fresh produce into Gaza, leading to widespread malnutrition in the territory." [See article for further analysis]
con_2_3	Blockade damages Gaza fishing industry	 Blockade damages Gaza fishing industry Israel allows fishermen to travel only 3 nautical miles offshore, reduced from 6nm in 2007. The UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs has estimated that Gaza fishermen need to journey at least 12-15 nautical miles from shore to catch larger shoals, and sardines in particular are 6 nm offshore. Shoals closer to shore have been depleted. The total catch in 1999 was nearly 4,000 tons in pre-blockade 1999. This was reduced to 2,700 tons in 2008. 
con_2_4	Blockade unjustly prevents building supplies entering Gaza	 Blockade unjustly prevents building supplies entering Gaza The blockade of Gaza unjustly prevents cement and other building supplies from entering the Gaza strip by ship or land. This is based on the idea that these materials could be used to build military fortifications. But, its effect is far-reaching in undermining legitimate Gaza construction efforts, particularly those necessary in rebuilding infrastructure after the devastating 2008-2009 war.[8] 
con_2_5	Israel devastated Gaza in 2008, blockade prevents reconstruction	 Israel devastated Gaza in 2008, blockade prevents reconstruction "Human Rights Watch slams Gaza blockade" Big News Network. June 8th, 2010: "Israel's comprehensive blockade of the Gaza Strip [...] has prevented significant reconstruction, including in areas where Human Rights Watch has documented destruction. Israel has allowed imports of cement for several repair projects, but United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon noted in late March that these were 'a drop in a bucket' compared to housing needs." 
con_2_6	Gaza blockade allows basic aid, but not other important trade	 Gaza blockade allows basic aid, but not other important trade Israel allows roughly 81 items to enter Gaza. It excludes thousands of other types of goods, making it impossible for Gaza to engage in legitimate trade and truly build its economy. This cause serious economic suffering.
con_2_7	Blockade undermines responsibility of Israeli-occupiers to Gazans	 Blockade undermines responsibility of Israeli-occupiers to Gazans Amnesty International has argued that as the occupying power, Israel has a duty under international law to ensure the welfare of Gaza’s inhabitants, including their rights to health, education, food and adequate housing. It argues that the blockade undermines these responsibilities.
headline_3	Strategy: Is the blockade strategically valuable to Israel?
pro_3_1	Lifting Gaza blockade would let weapons in, undermine peace	 Lifting Gaza blockade would let weapons in, undermine peace Jonathan Tobin. "Embrace of Hamas’s Goal of Breaking the Blockade Dooms Peace Efforts." Commentary Magazine. June 6th, 2010: "the problem with these [anti Israeli blockade] pieces is that if Israel did as they wished, it would effectively doom any chance for peace with the Palestinians. Lifting the blockade and allowing the free flow of goods into the area — which will open the floodgates for not only food and medicine, which are already in plentiful supply in Gaza, but also for Iranian arms and “construction materials” that will strengthen Hamas’s fortifications — would be the final step toward establishing the sovereignty of the Hamas regime in Gaza." 
pro_3_2	Blockade delegitimizes Hamas, preservers two-state solution	 Blockade delegitimizes Hamas, preservers two-state solution Yossi Klein Halevi. "There’s No Alternative." New York Times Room for Debate. June 1, 2010: "The political rationale for the siege is that only by eroding Hamas’s power can the two-state solution remain viable. So long as Hamas remains in control of Gaza, the Israeli public, which now overwhelmingly supports the principle of two states, will not agree to withdraw from the West Bank."
pro_3_3	Gaza blockade pressures Hamas to end rocket attacks, seek peace.	Gaza blockade pressures Hamas to end rocket attacks, seek peace. The stated purpose of the blockade was to pressure Hamas into ending the rocket attacks and to deprive them of the supplies necessary for the continuation of rocket attacks.
pro_3_4	Israeli blockade is supported by Egyptian blockade of Gaza	 Israeli blockade is supported by Egyptian blockade of Gaza Israel is not the only country blockading Gaza. Gaza's other neighbor, Egypt, is also blockading Gaza on the grounds that Hamas is a threat to its security. This demonstrates at the very least that Israel is not alone in its analysis, and it also is notably in the way that Egypt is a predominantly-Muslim country; the fact that it believes Hamas is a threat must mean that Hamas really is a threat, worthy of being blockaded.
pro_3_5	Israeli blockade isolates Hamas, helping push for regime change.	Israeli blockade isolates Hamas, helping push for regime change. If Hamas does not change its view of Israel, the best outcome would be for Hamas to be dethroned from power. A blockade helps achieve this by undermining Hamas popularity and economic power. 
pro_3_6	Lifting blockade would reward antics of flotilla activists	 Lifting blockade would reward antics of flotilla activists Jonah Goldberg. "Israel's Gaza blockade: It works." Los Angeles Times. June 8th, 2010: "this is a terrible moment to consider abandoning the blockade. Why? Because it would rightly be seen as giving the organizers and supporters of this seaborne propaganda stunt a victory. It would signal that America can be conned. It would reward Turkey's outrageous insult to us (a NATO ally) and to Israel, a longtime friend of Turkey."
con_3_1	Blockading Gaza actually strengthens Hamas' grip	 Blockading Gaza actually strengthens Hamas' grip Mr Cameron told the Commons during his first "questions time" as Prime Minister of the UK: "We should do everything we can to make sure this doesn't happen again. Friends of Israel - and I count myself a friend of Israel - should be saying to the Israelis that the blockade actually strengthens Hamas's grip on the economy and on Gaza. [...] And it's in their own interests to lift it and allow these vital supplies to get through." 
con_3_2	Blockade offers Hamas an excuse for its ineffectiveness	 Blockade offers Hamas an excuse for its ineffectiveness Ehud Eiran. "End the Siege, but Keep Arms Out." New York Times. June 1, 2010: "If the siege was intended to topple Hamas, it has failed and only provides an excuse for its governmental inefficiencies."
con_3_3	Deterrence and targeted strikes better than Gaza blockade.	Deterrence and targeted strikes better than Gaza blockade. Ehud Eiran. "End the Siege, but Keep Arms Out." New York Times. June 1, 2010: "Gaza has been used as a base for a 10-year shelling operation against southern Israel. This is our most acute security concern. [...] The siege does limit the amount and quality of weapons at Hamas’s disposal, but following the 2008-2009 attack on Gaza, Israel relies primarily on deterrence and the occasional follow-up military action."
con_3_4	Gaza blockade has achieved nothing	 Gaza blockade has achieved nothing Nicholas Kristof. "Blockade Has Failed." The New York Times. June 3rd, 2010: "The blockade has failed to topple Hamas, failed to recover the captured soldier Gilad Shalit, and failed to keep rockets out of Gaza. When you visit Gaza, you see that the siege has accomplished nothing — except to devastate the lives of 1.5 million ordinary Gazans."
con_3_5	Gaza blockade generally contrary to Israel's interests	 Gaza blockade generally contrary to Israel's interests Thomas Friedman. "When Friends Fall Out." New York Times. June 1, 2010: "It is overwhelmingly in Israel’s interest to bring more diplomatic imagination and energy to ending this Gaza siege. How long is this going to go on? Are we going to have a whole new generation grow up in Gaza with Israel counting how many calories they each get? That surely can’t be in Israel’s interest." 
con_3_6	Israeli blockade of Gaza has failed to meet objectives	 Israeli blockade of Gaza has failed to meet objectives "Israel's siege mentality." The Economist. Jun 3rd 2010: "The blockade of Gaza is cruel and has failed. The Gazans have suffered sorely but have not been starved into submission. Hamas has not been throttled and overthrown, as Israeli governments (and many others) have wished. Gilad Shalit, an Israeli soldier taken hostage, has not been freed. Weapons and missiles can still be smuggled in through tunnels from Egypt."
con_3_7	Gaza blockade worsens image of Israel as oppressor	 Gaza blockade worsens image of Israel as oppressor A senior American White House official told the New York Times in June of 2010: "Gaza has become the symbol in the Arab world of the Israeli treatment of Palestinians, and we have to change that. We need to remove the impulse for the flotillas. The Israelis also realize this is not sustainable."[9]
headline_4	Public opinion: Where is opinion internationally?
pro_4_1	Critics of Israeli blockade apply double standards	 Critics of Israeli blockade apply double standards Daniel Gordis. "A botched raid, a vital embargo." New York Times. June 2, 2010: "Israelis are resigned to the fact that reason will not shake the world’s blatant double standard. Our blockade of Gaza is “criminal”; yet nobody mentions that Egypt has had a blockade of Gaza in place since 2007, and has never hesitated to use lethal force against those trying to break it. Israel’s attempt to enforce a blockade becomes an international crisis, while most of the world shrugs when North Korea sinks a South Korean ship. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has declared his willingness to sit with Fatah leaders any time, anywhere, but they insist on mere “proximity talks,” which they will probably now scuttle, using the flotilla as an excuse."
pro_4_2	Israel is vulnerable; can't cave to global opinion on blockade	 Israel is vulnerable; can't cave to global opinion on blockade Daniel Gordis. "A botched raid, a vital embargo." New York Times. June 2, 2010: "Israel’s geographic vulnerability means that we do not have the luxury of caving in to the world’s condemnation. We will have to gird ourselves for the long, dangerous and lonely road ahead, buoyed by hope that what ultimately prevails will be not what is momentarily popular, but rather what is just."
con_4_1	Israelis suffer from double standard on Gaza blockade.	Israelis suffer from double standard on Gaza blockade. It can be argued that Israel has a double standard. Israelis point to the suffering of their civilians who live near the border with Gaza, but they, and the rest of the world, turn a blind eye when it comes to the suffering of the civilians in Gaza, half of whom are children.  
