title	Israeli raid on Gaza flotilla
question	Was Israel justified in seizing the flotilla?
headline_1	Blockade: Is Gaza blockade legal? Was raid just on these grounds?
pro_1_1	Israel has right to blockade Gaza during conflict	 Israel has right to blockade Gaza during conflict Leslie Gelb. "Israel was right." The Daily Beast. May 31, 2010: "Regarding international law, blockades are quite legal. The United States and Britain were at war with Germany and Japan and blockaded them. I can't remember international lawyers saying those blockades were illegal—even though they took place on the high seas in international waters. There would be a general violation only if the hostile actions against the ships took place in waters under the jurisdiction of another sovereign state. Thus, for example, if the Israelis stopped the ships in Egyptian waters, that would have been a violation." Harvard Law School Professor Alan Dershowitz, Chicago Law School Professor Eric Posner, and Johns Hopkins international law Professor Ruth Wedgwood all argue that the blockade is legal. 
pro_1_2	Israel has right to know what enters Gaza during conflict	 Israel has right to know what enters Gaza during conflict In an interview with Charlie Rose after the flotilla raid, Vice President Joe Biden said: "You can argue whether Israel should have dropped people onto that ship or not ... but the truth of the matter is, Israel has a right to know — they're at war with Hamas — has a right to know whether or not arms are being smuggled in."[1]
pro_1_3	Lifting Gaza blockade would let weapons in, undermine peace	 Lifting Gaza blockade would let weapons in, undermine peace Jonathan Tobin. "Embrace of Hamas’s Goal of Breaking the Blockade Dooms Peace Efforts." Commentary Magazine. June 6th, 2010: "the problem with these [anti Israeli blockade] pieces is that if Israel did as they wished, it would effectively doom any chance for peace with the Palestinians. Lifting the blockade and allowing the free flow of goods into the area — which will open the floodgates for not only food and medicine, which are already in plentiful supply in Gaza, but also for Iranian arms and “construction materials” that will strengthen Hamas’s fortifications — would be the final step toward establishing the sovereignty of the Hamas regime in Gaza." 
pro_1_4	Israel allows humanitarian goods into Gaza	 Israel allows humanitarian goods into Gaza Israeli PM, Benjamin Netanyahu: "Here's our policy. Humanitarian and other goods can come in. Weapons and war materials cannot. And we do let civilian goods get into Gaza."
pro_1_5	Israel offered to transport flotilla aid peacefully	 Israel offered to transport flotilla aid peacefully Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu: "On this occasion, we made several offers, time and time again, to deliver the goods on board the flotilla to Gaza after a security inspection. These offers were rejected each time."
pro_1_6	Blockade is not causing a humanitarian crisis in Gaza	 Blockade is not causing a humanitarian crisis in Gaza Israeli PM, Benjamin Netanyahu: "There is no humanitarian crisis in Gaza. Each week, an average of 10,000 tons of goods go into Gaza. There's no shortage of food, medicine, or other goods."[2]
pro_1_7	Hamas is cause of strife in Gaza, not Israel	 Hamas is cause of strife in Gaza, not Israel Hamas refuses to accept from Israel the aid offloaded from the flotilla. [3]. This either means that there is no crisis in Gaza, or that it is actively caused by Hamas. Netanyahu: "Why is life flourishing in the West Bank? Because it's not under the control of a terrorist organization!"
con_1_1	Blockade of Gaza is illegal, can't justify flotilla raid	 Blockade of Gaza is illegal, can't justify flotilla raid Billie Bender. "Was Israel’s flotilla raid illegal or legally?" Tufts Roundtable. June 2nd, 2010: "If you support Gaza. Then you believe that Israel is 'occupying' Gaza, and Israel is in violation of international law because it is denying Gaza’s sovereign right to trade and aid." [From this, you can then argue that Israel had no right to board the flotilla in International waters, and thus that the raid was illegal under international law.]
con_1_2	Blockading Gaza actually strengthens Hamas' grip	 Blockading Gaza actually strengthens Hamas' grip Mr Cameron told the Commons during his first "questions time" as Prime Minister of the UK: "We should do everything we can to make sure this doesn't happen again. Friends of Israel - and I count myself a friend of Israel - should be saying to the Israelis that the blockade actually strengthens Hamas's grip on the economy and on Gaza. [...] And it's in their own interests to lift it and allow these vital supplies to get through." 
con_1_3	Gaza blockade causes economic and humanitarian suffering	 Gaza blockade causes economic and humanitarian suffering Gregg Carlstrom. "Gaza's real humanitarian crisis." Al Jazeera. June 3, 2010. Al Jazeera: "Israel usually allows 81 items into Gaza, a list which is subject to revision on a near-daily basis. [...] A 2008 report from the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) found that 70 per cent of Gaza's population suffered from 'food insecurity.' As Al Jazeera's Sherine Tadros reported last week, the Israeli authorities allow little meat and fresh produce into Gaza, leading to widespread malnutrition in the territory." [See article for further analysis]
con_1_4	Blockade unjustly prevents building supplies from entering Gaza.	Blockade unjustly prevents building supplies from entering Gaza. The blockade of Gaza unjustly prevents cement and other building supplies from entering the Gaza strip by ship or land. This is based on the idea that these materials could be used to build military fortifications. But, its effect is far-reaching in undermining legitimate Gaza construction efforts, particularly those necessary in rebuilding infrastructure after the devastating 2008-2009 war.[4] 
con_1_5	Gaza blockade allows basic aid, but not other important trade	 Gaza blockade allows basic aid, but not other important trade Israel allows roughly 81 items to enter Gaza. It excludes thousands of other types of goods, making it impossible for Gaza to engage in legitimate trade and truly build its economy. This cause serious economic suffering.
con_1_6	Blockade of Gaza is generally contrary to Israel's interests	 Blockade of Gaza is generally contrary to Israel's interests Thomas Friedman. "When Friends Fall Out." New York Times. June 1, 2010: "It is overwhelmingly in Israel’s interest to bring more diplomatic imagination and energy to ending this Gaza siege. How long is this going to go on? Are we going to have a whole new generation grow up in Gaza with Israel counting how many calories they each get? That surely can’t be in Israel’s interest. Israel has gotten so good at controlling the Palestinians that it could get comfortable with an arrangement that will not only erode its own moral fabric but increase its international isolation. It may be that Hamas will give Israel no other choice, but Israel could show a lot more initiative in determining if that is really so."
headline_2	International Law: Did Israel obey international law?
pro_2_1	In conflict with Hamas, raid in international waters was legal	 In conflict with Hamas, raid in international waters was legal Leslie Gelb. "Israel was right." The Daily Beast. May 31, 2010: "Israel had every right under international law to stop and board ships bound for the Gaza war zone late Sunday. Only knee-jerk left-wingers and the usual legion of poseurs around the world would dispute this. [...] Israel has every right to protect itself under international law, including by blockades in international waters."
pro_2_2	Israeli flotilla raid was act of self-defense	 Israeli flotilla raid was act of self-defense Hamas has in its charter the goal of destroying Israel. They have launched missile and rocket attacks indiscriminately across the border into Israel. Therefore, Israel has every right, under international laws on national self-defense, to blockade and check all materials coming into Gaza to ensure that they are not rockets or other military supplies that could be used against Israeli citizens. Israel was merely exercising this right in its raid of the Gaza flotilla.  
pro_2_3	Israel issued warning to Gaza flotilla, which they ignored	 Israel issued warning to Gaza flotilla, which they ignored Audio evidence confirms the IDF issued a warning. The flotilla consciously decided to press forward. It is clear, therefore, that Israel exhausted all means necessary to avoid boarding the ship and engaging in violence. And, even when they boarded the ship, the ISF intentions were not to engage in violence, but simply to stop the ship from continuing forward without going through standard security checks.[5]
pro_2_4	Israel could have legally sunk Gaza flotilla for breaking blockade	 Israel could have legally sunk Gaza flotilla for breaking blockade Eric Posner. "The Gaza Blockade and International Law." Wall Street Journal. June 4, 2010: "one thing is clear. Ships that run blockades may be attacked and sunk under international law. If Israel had exercised that right, far more than nine people would have been killed."
pro_2_5	Intent of Gaza flotilla was not humanitarian, but provoking Israel	 Intent of Gaza flotilla was not humanitarian, but provoking Israel Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu: "This was no peace sail, but a premeditated act of violence. We have footage demonstrating exactly what our soldiers were facing, and the last thing you can say about that ship is that it was a peace sail."[6]
con_2_1	Israeli raid in international waters violates i-law	 Israeli raid in international waters violates i-law Billie Bender. "Was Israel’s flotilla raid illegal or legally?" Tufts Roundtable. June 2nd, 2010: "the blockade is an act of war, casus belli, because Israel attacked a foreign flagged ship from Turkey. Under the Law of the Sea (more or less), any ship harboring in international waters that is forcefully boarded by a foreign entity is having its sovereignty violated."
con_2_2	Cease-fire invalidates blockade-justification of war w/ Hamas	 Cease-fire invalidates blockade-justification of "war" w/ Hamas Marcelo Kohen, a law professor at Geneva’s Graduate Institute of International Studies, argued that "There is also at present a cease-fire on Gaza. Under [Israel's] logic one could maintain a maritime blockade unendingly. It only requires one party to consider itself as being in a ‘state of war.'" Therefore, Israel cannot justify its blockade and flotilla-raid in international waters on the grounds that it is "at war" or "in conflict" with Hamas.[7]
con_2_3	Israeli use of force on flotilla was disproportionate.	Israeli use of force on flotilla was disproportionate. International law professor Said Mahmoudi has argued this point. That, under international law, proportional force needs to be used in any given event, and that Israel's response to the the flotilla was excessive and overly costly in lives.[8]
con_2_4	Israeli raid on flotilla was aggressive; can't be called self-defense	 Israeli raid on flotilla was aggressive; can't be called self-defense Daniel Larison. "Self-Destructive “Self-Defense.'" Eunomia. June 1st, 2010: "Perhaps most galling about the overall defense of the raid is the constant invocation of self-defense. Everything Israel does is always done in self-defense, no matter how excessive, disproportionate, unnecessary, wrong or aggressive it is. When everything becomes a matter of self-defense and the proper distinctions between actual legtimate self-defense and reckless excesses are erased, pretty soon most of the rest of the world won’t pay any attention to Israeli claims of self-defense even when they are legitimate." 
con_2_5	Illegal to seize peaceful supplies during conflict	 Illegal to seize peaceful supplies during conflict Ben Quinn. "Was Israel's raid on Gaza Freedom Flotilla legal?" The Christian Science Monitor. June 2, 2010: "The other precedent they cite is the 1804 Murray vs. Charming Betsy case, in which a court ruled that the US Army cannot seize goods that are not for military use in international waters, even during wartime."
con_2_6	General statements against Israel's Gaza flotilla raid	 General statements against Israel's Gaza flotilla raid  Ben Caspit wrote in Israel's Maariv daily: "The naval operation ... was complete stupidity. A mixture of failures that led to a disgraceful fiasco."
headline_3	Activists' intentions: Were the intentions on the protesters bad or good?
pro_3_1	Intent of Gaza flotilla was not aid, but provoking Israel	 Intent of Gaza flotilla was not aid, but provoking Israel Flotilla organizers said: "This mission is not about delivering humanitarian supplies, it's about breaking Israel's siege on 1.5 million Palestinians."[9]
pro_3_2	Video confirms flotilla protesters were well armed	 Video confirms flotilla protesters were well armed Video evidence confirms passengers were armed with weapons such as knives, axes, pistols, and metal rods. Picture evidence confirms activists had live ammunition; IDF soldiers encountered violent resistance.
pro_3_3	Gaza flotilla connected with Hamas/terrorism	 Gaza flotilla connected with Hamas/terrorism IHH, which orchestrated the flotilla, is known to have ties with global jihad network and Hamas. [11] At least 50 passengers onboard were suspected of having connections with global jihad-affilitated terrorist organizations. [12]
pro_3_4	Many Gaza flotilla activists desired martyrdom	 Many Gaza flotilla activists desired martyrdom Some of the activists who would later die during the MV Mavi Marmara clash spoke of dreams of martyrdom. Ali Khaider Benginin told his family before leaving, "I am going to be a shahid; I dreamt I will become a shahid – I saw in a dream that I will be killed."[13] His wife also said that he "constantly prayed to become a martyr."[14] [More examples in argument page (link above)]
con_3_1	Gaza flotilla was humanitarian, raid was unjust	 Gaza flotilla was humanitarian, raid was unjust Glenn Greenwald. "Israel attacks aid ship, kills at least 10 civilians." Salon. May 31, 2010: "It hardly seemed possible for Israel -- after its brutal devastation of Gaza and its ongoing blockade -- to engage in more heinous and repugnant crimes.  But by attacking a flotilla in international waters carrying humanitarian aid, and slaughtering at least 10 people, Israel has managed to do exactly that. If Israel's goal were to provoke as much disgust and contempt for it as possible, it's hard to imagine how it could be doing a better job."
con_3_2	Gaza flotilla was not intending on violent conflict	 Gaza flotilla was not intending on violent conflict Paul Joseph Watson. "Did Activists Attack Israeli Soldiers In Self-Defense?." Prison Planet.com. June 1, 2010: "Claims that the activists on board represented an 'armada of hate' are not backed up by videos shot on board before the incident. The fact that around 20 passengers were killed whereas IDF troops were only injured proves that the activists had not prepared a 'terror ambush' as some quarters of the media claim."
con_3_3	Activists would have been justified in violence in self-defense.	Activists would have been justified in violence in self-defense. Flotilla proponents and Turkish charity group leaders said that since the ships were on international waters that, "even if we had used guns", abandoning the non-violence principle would still be legal as self-defense from Israeli "kidnapping" and "piracy".
headline_4	Self-Defense: Were Israeli soldiers protecting themselves?
pro_4_1	Israeli commandos acted in self-defense once on Gaza flotilla	 Israeli commandos acted in self-defense once on Gaza flotilla "Israel and the Flotilla." Chicago Tribune Editorial. June 1, 2010: "Video shows the Israeli commandos were surrounded and attacked as they reached the ship's deck. The Israelis tried to avoid a lethal confrontation. Israeli officials reportedly offered the vessel the same deal that was accepted by at least one previous flotilla — divert to the Israeli port of Ashdod and unload the cargo for inspection. As long as the cargo doesn't contain weaponry, it will be shipped into the Gaza Strip by land."
pro_4_2	Israel miscalculated on flotilla, but acted in self-defense	 Israel miscalculated on flotilla, but acted in self-defense "Israel and the Flotilla." Chicago Tribune Editorial. June 1, 2010: "The more we learn about this incident, though, the more it looks like a setup designed to provoke or embarrass Israel. [...] Israeli commandos rappelled from helicopters onto a ship carrying humanitarian supplies to Gaza early Monday, expecting minimal resistance from about 600 pro-Palestinian activists on board. The Israelis badly miscalculated. A melee ended with nine protesters killed. Dozens were wounded, including seven Israeli soldiers."
pro_4_3	Protesters initiated violence on flotilla, not IDF.	Protesters initiated violence on flotilla, not IDF. It is key to realize that the first acts of violence were committed by protesters on the flotilla, who beat Israeli forces when they boarded. This is to blame for the escalation of the event.
pro_4_4	Israeli troops did not harm Gaza activists on other ships.	Israeli troops did not harm Gaza activists on other ships. Israeli sources say that the other five ships were boarded and taken over peacefully, and that the only incidents took place in the Mavi Marmara. Israeli minister Avigdor Lieberman has said, on the other five ships, "the people got off without a scratch."[15] This might indicate that the IDF had no intention of engaging in violence, and were only forced to do so in self-defense against violent activists on the Mavi Marmara. 
pro_4_5	Flotilla activists fired weapons and wounded Israelis.	Flotilla activists fired weapons and wounded Israelis. An Israeli commando said that there was live fire at some point against them from below deck. Some of the commandos suffered gunshot wounds.
pro_4_6	Out-armed Palestinians attacked Israel before, would attack on Flotilla.	Out-armed Palestinians attacked Israel before, would attack on Flotilla. Leslie Gelb. "Israel was right." The Daily Beast. May 31, 2010: "[Some] argued that it was inconceivable that the civilian passengers on board would have been 'waiting up to fire on the Israeli military, with all its might.' By that keen logic, no Palestinian ever would have fired upon a militarily superior Israeli. We seem to know otherwise."
pro_4_7	Israeli rules of engagement allow firing only when life in danger	 Israeli rules of engagement allow firing only when life in danger "Israel obeyed international law: Legally, the Gaza flotilla conflict is an open-and-shut case". NY Daily News. By Alan Dershowitz. June 2010 "Every individual has the right to repel such attacks by the use of lethal force. That was especially true in this case, when the soldiers were so outnumbered on the deck of the ship. Recall that Israel's rules of engagement required its soldiers to fire only paintballs unless their lives were in danger. Would any country in the world deny its soldiers the right of self-defense under comparable circumstances?"
con_4_1	Israel should have expected Gaza flotilla to react violently	 Israel should have expected Gaza flotilla to react violently Daniel Larison. "Self-Destructive 'Self-Defense.'" Eunomia. June 1st, 2010: "If the activists on the flotilla should have expected violence, as Gelb argues, what were the Israelis expecting the activists to do when they boarded their ships? Give them a hug?"
con_4_2	Israeli troops fired first, flotilla reacted in self-defense	 Israeli troops fired first, flotilla reacted in self-defense "Israelis opened fire before boarding Gaza flotilla, say released activists." Guardian. June 1, 2010: "Survivors of the Israeli assault on a flotilla carrying relief supplies to Gaza returned to Greece and Turkey today, giving the first eyewitness accounts of the raid in which at least 10 people died. [...] Arriving at Istanbul's Ataturk airport with her one-year-old baby, Turkish activist Nilufer Cetin said Israeli troops opened fire before boarding the Turkish-flagged ferry Mavi Marmara, which was the scene of the worst clashes and all the fatalities. Israeli officials have said that the use of armed force began when its boarding party was attacked. [...] 'It was extremely bad and very tough clashes took place. The Mavi Marmara is filled with blood,' said Cetin, whose husband is the Mavi Marmara's chief engineer. [...] She told reporters that she and her child hid in the bathroom of their cabin during the confrontation. 'The operation started immediately with firing. First it was warning shots, but when the Mavi Marmara wouldn't stop these warnings turned into an attack,' she said. 'There were sound and smoke bombs and later they used gas bombs. Following the bombings they started to come on board from helicopters.'"
con_4_3	Israeli rubber bullets and noise grenades stoked flotilla resistance.	Israeli rubber bullets and noise grenades stoked flotilla resistance. Activists on board agree that there was resistance but say it was not organized; rather the Israeli helicopters, ships and gunfire "created the atmosphere that people wanted to defend themselves."[16]
con_4_4	Excessive force was used by Israel once on flotilla.	Excessive force was used by Israel once on flotilla. Bülent Yıldırım, president of the Humanitarian Aid Foundation (İHH), reported that photographer Cevdet Kılıçlar was shot in the head by a soldier one meter away. British activist Kevin Ovenden confirmed that a man was shot by soldiers after pointing his camera towards them.[17] Forensic investigation found that Kılıçlar was shot in the head at close range.[18]]
con_4_5	Cameras of flotilla activists were taken to hide evidence.	Cameras of flotilla activists were taken to hide evidence. The cameras, phones, and video-cameras of flotilla activists were confiscated by the Israeli government after the ship was seized and passengers detained. This means that the Gaza flotilla activists were at a significant disadvantage in sharing any evidence of Israeli Defense Force wrong-doing. This needs to be kept in mind as the evidence is reviewed. Indeed, "history is written by the winners", and in this case it should be a concern that Israel is in control of most of the evidence of the event. And, it should be asked why the IDF would confiscate these recording devices in the first place? Are they trying to hide something? 
headline_5	Strategy: Was the raid a good strategic move?
pro_5_1	Israel flotilla raid was strategic in context of Gaza blockade.	Israel flotilla raid was strategic in context of Gaza blockade. "Was Israel’s flotilla raid illegal or legal?" Tufts Roundtable. : "If you support Israel. Then you believe that Gaza is a “disputed” territory without its own sovereignty. Consequently, you believe that the blockade on commerce coming into that tiny strip of land is perfectly legit (because it occurred off the shores of Israeli waters). As a supporter of Israel, you can understand their efforts to board the ship. Since it was okay to board the ship, you believe that none of the ship’s crewmen should have attacked the fast-roping commandos. Once the crewmen attacked the Israeli soldiers with lead pipes, rods and other weapons, you feel that it was well within the confines of Israel’s right to defense to repel the attackers with terminal force."
pro_5_2	Israel issued the flotilla a warning, which they ignored.	Israel issued the flotilla a warning, which they ignored. Audio evidence confirms the IDF issued a warning. The flotilla consciously decided to press forward. It is clear, therefore, that Israel exhausted all means necessary before boarding the ship. And, the violent events that took place once they boarded the ship were a result of protester violence and escalation of the affair.
con_5_1	Israel's flotilla raid strains its alliances	 Israel's flotilla raid strains its alliances Daniel Larison. "Self-Destructive 'Self-Defense'". The American Conservative. June 1st, 2010: "The alliance between Israel and Turkey has been weakening for years, but something like this could be enough to damage it more than anything we have seen so far. That would have negative repercussions mostly for Israel, as it already has few significant allies and no other Muslim allies, and it cannot afford to keep provoking and alienating the relatively few governments that have had good relations with it in the past."
con_5_2	Raid demonstrates incompetence in Israeli government	 Raid demonstrates incompetence in Israeli government David Grossman. "The Gaza flotilla attack shows how far Israel has declined." Guardian. June 1, 2010: "How insecure, confused and panicky a country must be, to act as Israel acted! With a combination of excessive military force, and a fatal failure to anticipate the intensity of the reaction of those aboard the ship. [...] Above all, this insane operation shows how far Israel has declined."
con_5_3	Flotilla raid continues overly-violent Israeli mind-set	 Flotilla raid continues overly-violent Israeli mind-set Israel has a record on relying too much on violence without due consideration to civilian casualties. The flotilla raid is a continuation of this strategy and mind-set.
con_5_4	Israel flotilla raid makes it harder to act on Iran	 Israel flotilla raid makes it harder to act on Iran "Will Israel's raid on Gaza flotilla hurt bid for Iran nuclear sanctions?" Haaretz. June 2nd, 2010: "United Nations officials have expressed concern that Israel's deadly raid of a Gaza-bound humanitarian aid convoy earlier this week would affect an international bid to impose a new round of sanctions against Iran over its contentious international program. [...] Despite the International Atomic Energy Association's discovery this week that Iran has been preparing extra equipment for enriching uranium to higher levels, Israel's botched commando raid of a Turkish-flagged ship has shifted the focus within the international community."
headline_6	Image: Was the raid a good move for Israel's image?
pro_6_1	Double standard in outrage over Israeli flotilla raid	 Double standard in outrage over Israeli flotilla raid When North Korea torpedoed a South Korean navy vessel, killing 47 innocent people, the UN was hesitant to condemn North Korea in fear of escalating tensions. When IDF soldiers board a flotilla and are attacked with knives, live ammunition, and metal bars, the UN unhesitatingly condemns Israel as a "murderer", and calls the incident a "massacre."
con_6_1	Israel's raid on Gaza flotilla was a PR disaster	 Israel's raid on Gaza flotilla was a PR disaster Ronen Bergman, an investigative journalist for the Israli news wrote in a Wall Street Journal essay on June 2nd, 2010: "The horrific outcome -- so far nine killed and dozens wounded -- has caused irreparable damage to Israel's image. Even if the video evidence proves beyond doubt that the activists on board the ships were armed and that they were the first to attack, the battle for public opinion (which, after all, is what the flotilla exercise was really about) was lost the moment the first Israeli soldier set foot on the deck of the Mavi Marmara -- the Turkish ferry that served as the flagship. [...] What makes the flotilla fiasco all the more astounding is that Israel has been preparing for this confrontation for months. It has had time to run various scenarios, and even to review strategies it has previously employed for similar events."[19]
