title	Ban on Muslim burqa and niqab
question	
headline_1	Gender equality: Does a ban protect women's rights/equality?
pro_1_1	Burqa generally disadvantages women as compared to men.	Burqa generally disadvantages women as compared to men. The burqa places a range of limitations that categorically put them at a disadvantage to men. They lose their visible identity in society, which often means they are unemployable, but also means they are largely unfit to engage in most healthy forms of social interaction in society, on the street, at parties, and generally anywhere where visible identification is important. It makes it impossible for them to exercise, and deprives them of adequate sunlight. All of these things place them at a huge disadvantage to men.
pro_1_2	Face-covering veil makes economic/social participation impossible	 Face-covering veil makes economic/social participation impossible Jean-Francois Cope. "Tearing Away the Veil" New York Times. May 4th, 2010: "The ban would apply to the full-body veil known as the burqa or niqab. This is not an article of clothing — it is a mask, a mask worn at all times, making identification or participation in economic and social life virtually impossible." This places these women at a huge disadvantage economically and socially, threatens their success in life, and generally undermines their ability to climb socio-economically. This is certainly unfair and unequal. 
pro_1_3	Full veils represent misogynist ideology designed to oppress women	 Full veils represent misogynist ideology designed to oppress women French President Nicholas Sarkozy, laying the groundwork for a burqa ban, said in 2009: "In our country, we cannot accept that women be prisoners behind a screen, cut off from all social life, deprived of all identity … The burqa is not a religious sign, it’s a sign of subservience, a sign of debasement — I want to say it solemnly, it will not be welcome on the territory of the French Republic."
pro_1_4	Choice to wear burqa is driven by oppressive ideology	 "Choice" to wear burqa is driven by oppressive ideology Women that wear the burqa say they are making an "independent choice," but this choice is heavily commanded by a fundamentalist religio-cultural context, in which they are made to believe that wearing the burqa is a requirement by God. Nobody comes to these conclusions "independently", just as nobody discovers a religion or a culture on their own. They come to it because a muslim preacher, their community, or family tells them that it is the "proper" interpretation of the Quran and God's will. These religio-cultural contexts originate from Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, and Jordan, where burqas are almost universally worn and in which the worst violations of women's rights on the planet occur. This is where women are not able to leave the house without their husband's permission and with a burqa on, and where they are often not allowed to work, drive, and engage in socially meaningful lives. These fundamentalist contexts are what drive the "choice" of women in the West to wear the burqa. Trying to separate these oppressive contexts from the "choice" is naive. Women are making the "choice" because they have been taught to believe that it is God's will to live as second-class citizens under the control of men and that somehow the burqa is "modest". 
pro_1_5	Burqa ban protects women from pressure to wear it	 Burqa ban protects women from pressure to wear it Sara Malkani. "Burka: the other view." Dawn.com. February 16th, 2010: "France’s secretary of state for urban affairs, Fadela Amara, a Muslim woman of Algerian descent, has strongly supported the ban in France. [...] Amara, a prominent women’s rights activist in France is the former leader of a feminist organisation that defends rights of women living in low-income urban communities in France, many of whom are Muslim immigrants becoming increasingly vulnerable to the pressures of Islamic fundamentalism in their communities.
pro_1_6	If men were religiously required to wear burqa, it would end.	If men were religiously required to wear burqa, it would end. Under no scenario would men accept this burden. This alone makes it clear that the burqa is part of a gender-biased culture, and unfair to women.
pro_1_7	Those wearing burqa increase pressure on others to wear it	 Those wearing burqa increase pressure on others to wear it. Sara Malkani. "Burka: the other view." Dawn.com. February 16th, 2010: "even an independent decision to wear it is not carried out in a vacuum. It is important to understand the effect of this choice on other Muslim women, many of whom may be trying to resist pressures from their relatives, community or governments. [...] Their resistance is undermined when the burka becomes increasingly common in public places and more closely associated with Islam. [...] The question is wouldn’t the burka ban be a major impediment to the freedom of women who feel compelled to wear it when they are in public? Perhaps, but on the other hand, it may provide much-needed respite to the many Muslim women who are forced to wear the burka by family, friends or religious figures in their community."
con_1_1	Forcing removal of the burqa damages women's rights	 Forcing removal of the burqa damages women's rights  "What's threatening about European attacks on Muslim veils." Washington Post Editorial. May 1, 2010: "Those who say they are defending women's rights have it exactly backward: They are violating fundamental rights to free expression and religious freedom. They are also exacerbating the very problem they say they are worried about. Muslims, including the devoutly religious, are in Europe to stay. Banning their customs, their clothing or their places of worship will not make them more European. It will only make Europe less free."
con_1_2	Wrong to force removal of burqa to protect against forced-wearing	 Wrong to force removal of burqa to protect against forced-wearing "Burqa, Niqab, or Bikini: Is It a Personal Choice?" Islam Online.net. Euro Muslims Editorial Desk. October 7th, 2009: "under the principles of secularism promoted in Europe, it is illogical to take away women's freedom concerning their way of dressing based on the assumption that a certain dress can hinder a woman's freedom in different walks of life. [...] outlawing the burqa merely trades one form of compulsion (you must wear this) for another (you may not wear this)."
con_1_3	Enforce laws on forced-wearing of burqa, don't ban it	 Enforce laws on forced-wearing of burqa, don't ban it "Banning the burqa. A bad idea." Economist. May 13, 2010: "On sexual equality, women would be better protected by the enforcement of existing laws against domestic violence than by the enactment of new laws forcing them to dress in a way that may be against their will."
con_1_4	Even if burqa is oppressive symbol, women have right to wear it	 Even if burqa is oppressive symbol, women have right to wear it "Don't ban the burka." National Post Editorial (Canada). January 9, 2010: "We share this abhorrence for such clothing: The burka signifies the notion that a woman is a piece of male property, which must be packaged and caged. [...] Still, banning burkas is not the right way to battle the sexist ideas that burkas symbolize. In our society, women have a right to wear what they want, assuming they choose to do so of their own free will."
con_1_5	Burqa is individual commitment to modesty, not oppression	 Burqa is individual commitment to modesty, not oppression "Is France right to ban wearing the burka in public? NO:" Stephanie Street on Guardian. March 21, 2010: "I wonder how many niqab-wearing French citizens Nicolas Sarkozy has sat with and talked to. I imagine not many. Because if he had, he could not with a clear conscience say that 'the burka is not a religious sign (but) a sign of subservience, of debasement'. [...] To whatever extent a Muslim woman chooses to practise it, modesty is a central concern within the religion (for men as well, although this is often ignored). Everyone I spoke to who wore Islamic dress did so because this issue of modesty is sacrosanct..." 
con_1_6	Burqa liberates women from visual judgement	 Burqa liberates women from visual judgement "Is France right to ban wearing the burka in public? NO:" Stephanie Street on Guardian. March 21, 2010: "Everyone I spoke to who wore Islamic dress [...] felt liberated not being judged on their appearance. And those who choose to wear the niqab are doing that to an extreme." 
con_1_7	Some women wear burqa to emulate wives of prophet Muhammad.	Some women wear burqa to emulate wives of prophet Muhammad. The wives of the prophet wore the burqa. And, so many see the burqa as a way of emulating them, and further expressing their faith.
con_1_8	Burqa has diversity of meaning to women that wear it	 Burqa has diversity of meaning to women that wear it "Cold Comfort: Supporting Arguments don’t do Burqa Bans a Favor." Muslimah Media Watch. February 4th, 2010: "In the bitterly, painfully cold Toronto winter cold snap we had last week, I found myself thinking that a piece of fabric designed to cover the face could actually be a great idea.  In saying that, I don’t mean to trivialize the issue, but instead to say that covering one’s face, as with many experiences, can have multiple meanings, and might even be to one’s advantage at certain times."
con_1_9	Burqa ban isolates women that believe they must wear it	 Burqa ban isolates women that believe they must wear it "What's behind France's proposed burqa ban?" Christian Science Monitor Editorial. January 27, 2009: "If the recommendations on the full veil become law, it will become illegal to wear it in state venues such as hospitals, public buildings, and on trains and buses (though streets are not off limits). Its supporters see it as consistent with the head-scarf ban, but at least with that Muslim girls had a choice to go to a religious school. If the burqa is banned, what’s the choice for the women who wear it? Stay imprisoned in their neighborhoods?"
con_1_10	Ban causes women to cling to burqa more tightly	 Ban causes women to cling to burqa more tightly "Proposed burqa ban violates freedoms." The Butler Collegiate Editorial. February 2nd, 2010: "Even if Sarkozy is correct (and there’s good reason to assume he isn’t) the most glaring problem is that a ban on of the burqa would likely prompt women to cling to it tighter, to hang on to a material representation of a persecuted immaterial identity."
headline_2	Rights: Do women not have a right to wear the burqa/niqab?
pro_2_1	Freedom of dress is limited, including for full veil	 Freedom of dress is limited, including for full veil Jean Francois-Cope. "Tearing away the veil." New York Times. May 4th, 2010: "The fact that people are prohibited from strolling down Fifth Avenue in the nude does not constitute an attack on the fundamental rights of nudists. Likewise, wearing headgear that fully covers the face does not constitute a fundamental liberty."
pro_2_2	Burqa undermines identity, responsibility, social compact	 Burqa undermines identity, responsibility, social compact Jean Francois-Cope. "Tearing away the veil." New York Times. May 4th, 2010: "in both France and the United States, we recognize that individual liberties cannot exist without individual responsibilities. This acknowledgment is the basis of all our political rights. We are free as long as we are responsible individuals who can be held accountable for our actions before our peers. But the niqab and burqa represent a refusal to exist as a person in the eyes of others. The person who wears one is no longer identifiable; she is a shadow among others, lacking individuality, avoiding responsibility."
pro_2_3	Burqa presents some security/safety risks for others.	Burqa presents some security/safety risks for others. Some crimes are being committed by individuals wearing burqas (documented in section below). Terrorists have also dawned burqas as a disguise (documented below). Those that wear burqas while driving also present a risk, given the limitations on range of vision. These risks are born by other citizens, and could be considered a violation of their rights. 
pro_2_4	Burqa can be banned on the grounds that it is indecent.	Burqa can be banned on the grounds that it is indecent. Why are nudity and prostitution banned? There is no direct "damage" to other citizens and their rights, so why? It is because a society has judged that something is indecent and possibly immoral about them. The same can apply to the burqa. If it is concluded that the burqa is indecent because it is a symbol of the oppression of women and for other reasons, than it is not out of the question to ban it on these grounds. 
pro_2_5	Burqa is socially divisive and damaging.	Burqa is socially divisive and damaging. The burqa generates anxiety among those that fear Islamic terrorism. It also generates frustration and concern for those that see it as representing the oppression of women. Non of this is justification alone for a ban, but it is a cost.
pro_2_6	Face-covering not required in Islam; no religious need	 Face-covering not required in Islam; no religious need Jean Francois-Cope. "Tearing away the veil." New York Times. May 4th, 2010: "French Muslim leaders have noted that the Koran does not instruct women to cover their faces, while in Tunisia and Turkey, it is forbidden in public buildings; it is even prohibited during the pilgrimage to Mecca." If there is no religious need, than there is very little freedom-of-religion justification.
pro_2_7	God's law on burqa cannot override secular human rights	 "God's law" on burqa cannot override secular human rights Baron Bodissey. "A Yes to a Burka Ban is a Yes to Secularization." Europe News. May 20th, 2010: "The most important question here should be: What does it matter whether it is in the Koran or is considered to be prescribed by Islamic law? Religious freedom does not mean having to tolerate things that are so inhuman or undemocratic, just because they were required 1400 years ago by the founder of a religion and his ideological disciples, and are still seen by orthodox Muslims as exemplary (sunna). In a secular, European state, universal human rights are the basis of our mindset and our laws. Blind obedience to Islamic rules is not appropriate."
pro_2_8	Women should assimilate, or return to Islamist states	 Women should assimilate, or return to Islamist states Ghada Al Atrash Janbey. "On Quebec’s Decision to Ban the Muslim Niqab." Dissident Voice. April 17th, 2010: "As an Arab woman raised in the West, I fully understand the importance of keeping to cultural traditions and religious beliefs, but I have also learned the importance of assimilation. It is understandable that immigrants seek to preserve the old, but they must also embrace the new. And if the new happens to conflict with their own beliefs, then they might as well remain in their original homelands where they might feel a better sense of belonging and acceptance."
pro_2_9	General statements in favor of ban on burqa and niqab	 General statements in favor of ban on burqa and niqab A 2009/2010 French Parliamentary Commission five month study concluded: "The wearing of the full veil is a challenge to our republic. This is unacceptable. We must condemn this excess."[1]
con_2_1	Women should be able to wear what they want, including burqa	 Women should be able to wear what they want, including burqa President Obama said: "In the United States our basic attitude is that we’re not going to tell people what to wear."[2]
con_2_2	Burqa ban violates religious freedoms	 Burqa ban violates religious freedoms John Dalhuisen, Amnesty International’s expert on discrimination in Europe, expressed Amnesty's official position in this way in April of 2010: "A complete ban on the covering of the face would violate the rights to freedom of expression and religion of those women who wear the burqa or the niqab."[3]
con_2_3	Burqa ban violates rights of women to their own body.	Burqa ban violates rights of women to their own body. According most laws nowadays, everyone has a right to control his or her own body. The choice of a woman to wear a burqa or niqab on her body is part of that freedom. 
con_2_4	If neo-Nazis can wear their outfits, women can wear burqas.	If neo-Nazis can wear their outfits, women can wear burqas. Neo-Nazis freely go around with t-shirts that says 'Heil Hitler!' and with old-Nazi uniforms with swastika symbols on them. Laws protect their right to do so. And, certainly, a burqa is no more threatening than "Heil Hitler". It should be protected as well. 
con_2_5	Burqa ban violates principles of mutual tolerance	 Burqa ban violates principles of mutual tolerance Steve Chapman. "A free society requires mutual tolerance." Chicago Tribune. May 23, 2010: "The mutual tolerance approach works well in this country. But some nations that require ultraconservative Muslims to accept constant exposure to immodest attire think modern Westerners should not have to put up with the clothing choices of ultraconservative Muslims."
con_2_6	Burqa can be criticized, but ban is excessive	 Burqa can be criticized, but ban is excessive Nikhat Kazmi. "Don't ban the burqa, question it." The Times of India. June 23rd, 2009: "Should Mr Sarkozy ban the burqa from France? Definitely not. Because bans are undemocratic and an unqualified attack on individual freedom. Should we however use this opportunity to question the efficacy of the burqa, the chador, the veil or what you will? Definitely yes. Specially since the burqa isn't just another piece of cloth but has a lot of ideological and cultural connotations to it. The French President himself has termed it a symbol of subservience which has no place in a secular state."
con_2_7	Limits can be imposed on burqa when necessary, but not ban	 Limits can be imposed on burqa when necessary, but not ban "Banning the burqa. A bad idea." Economist. May 13, 2010: "European governments are entitled to limit women’s rights to wear the burqa. In schools, for instance, pupils should be able to see teachers’ faces, as should judges and juries in court. But Europeans should accept that, however much they dislike the burqa, banning it altogether would be an infringement on the individual rights which their culture normally struggles to protect. The French, of all people, should know that. As Voltaire might have said, 'I disapprove of your dress, but I will defend to the death your right to wear it.'"
con_2_8	Discomfort with burqa is inadequate to ban it	 Discomfort with burqa is inadequate to ban it "What's behind France's proposed burqa ban?" Christian Science Monitor Editorial. January 27, 2009: "The burqa does not fit comfortably with Western sentiments. It’s closed; Westerners are open. They want to see people’s faces. It’s also viewed as a prison for women – even if Muslim women are free to choose it. And it symbolizes fundamentalist Islam, which conjures up images of terrorism. [...] But sentiments shouldn’t be confused with bedrock freedoms, including the right to practice one’s religion. Being uncomfortable with another’s faith or even dress – and encoding that discomfort in law – puts one on the slippery slope to official discrimination. Will Sikh turbans be next?"
con_2_9	State should not judge culture/burqa; slippery slope	 State should not judge culture/burqa; slippery slope Sandeep Gopalan. "Behind the burqa." New York Times Op-Ed. January 27, 2010: "judgments about cultural values are very subjective. Who decides if particular items of clothing fit with French values? Can we trust politicians and bureaucrats to make these decisions for us? [...] Secondly, where do you draw the line? Are turbans, yarmulkes, saris, salwars and long skirts next? Many groups, including some feminists, assert that crucifixes and crosses are examples of patriarchal oppression. Would a government ban on jewelry containing crucifixes be justified? This is a slippery slope. [...] If we support a burqa ban on the basis that we dislike the clothing, or that it offends our notion of freedom, or that it makes us uncomfortable, we would then be opening ourselves to all manner of compromises on the many unpopular personal choices that we make in daily life."
headline_3	Protecting women: Is burqa abusive or does it help protect women?
pro_3_1	Protecting women from lustful men is primitive idea.	Protecting women from lustful men is primitive idea. The idea that, in modern society, men are lustful creatures stalking women, and that women must, therefore, be protected by completely smothering their identity is ridiculous. In societies without the full veil, there are no problems adequately protecting women with existing measures and laws, and by the education of men on proper behavior and conduct, and through severe punishments for sexual harassment, molestation, and rape. 
pro_3_2	Burqa worsens attitude of men toward women	 Burqa worsens attitude of men toward women Burqa cultivates an attitude that women are possessions, or "jewels" to be protected for a man's own use. This attitude, and the sexual repression that comes from an environment where men can't even see women until they are married to them, creates a dangerous combination that fosters abuse, sexual harassment, molestation, and even rape.
pro_3_3	States where burqa is prominent violate women's rights.	States where burqa is prominent violate women's rights. There is a clear correlation between countries where the burqa is prominent and countries where the worst violations of women's rights occur. Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Saudia Arabia, the three countries with the highest prevalence of women wearing burqas, all also have the worst records in the world of the oppression of women. This includes, with only slight variation, forbidding women to leave the home without supervision, forbidding them to drive, work, go to social gatherings, swim, etc. The burqa is intimately tied-up with these horrendous human rights and women's right violations. Attempting to justify the burqa outside of this context is intellectually irresponsible.
pro_3_4	Hijab is modest non-identity-concealing alternative to burqa	 Hijab is modest non-identity-concealing alternative to burqa Ghada Al Atrash Janbey. "On Quebec’s Decision to Ban the Muslim Niqab." Dissident Voice. April 17th, 2010: "I would also like to make clear that I am not implying one needs to shed his/her identity in another country. In fact, when not taken to extreme measures (as is the case with the niqab), the hijab covering the hair can make a positive statement about celebrating religious beliefs or cultural traditions as is the case with an Indian wearing her flamboyant silk Sari or a Pakistani wearing her traditional Salwar Kameez." 
con_3_1	Burqa protects Muslim women from lustful men	 Burqa protects Muslim women from lustful men Abdallah Bin Eifan. "Ban on niqab and West’s bias." Arab News. May 17, 2010: "Islam allows women to work, seek knowledge, engage in business, testify in court, uphold the ties of kinship, visit the sick, and so on, but it has set limits in order to protect them and to prevent hooligans from harassing them."
con_3_2	Many Western things oppress women as much as burqas might	 Many Western things oppress women as much as burqas might Steve Chapman. "A free society requires mutual tolerance." Chicago Tribune. May 23, 2010: "The veil, we are told, is a symbol of oppression imposed on women by husbands and other male relatives. Could be. But how do the critics know? The same thing can be said about surgically enhanced breasts in Europe and the United States."
con_3_3	Burqa is more modest and less primitive than Western culture.	Burqa is more modest and less primitive than Western culture. If the burqa is primitive then does that mean that those who say that women can be used as an object of lust in the form of models, girl friends, fashion shows on bill boards etc are modern and not primitive. Remember that primitive people covered themselves with very little dress as many so called liberated women wear.
headline_4	Security: Are the burqa/niqab a security risk?
pro_4_1	Ban on burqa/niqab preserves identification for security	 Ban on burqa/niqab preserves identification for security Daniel Pipes. "Ban the Burqa - and the Niqab Too." Jerusalem Post. August 1, 2007: "In contrast, burqas and niqabs should be banned in all public spaces because they present a security risk. Anyone might lurk under those shrouds – female or male, Muslim or non-Muslim, decent citizen, fugitive, or criminal – with who knows what evil purposes. [...] One of the July 2005 London bombers, Yassin Omar, 26, took on the burqa twice – once when fleeing the scene of the crime, then a day later, when fleeing London for the Midlands. [...] Other male burqa'ed fugitives include a Somali murder suspect in the United Kingdom, Palestinian killers fleeing Israeli justice, a member of the Taliban fleeing NATO forces in Afghanistan, and the murderer of a Sunni Islamist in Pakistan."
pro_4_2	Burq/niqab ban preserves identification for fighting crime	 Burq/niqab ban preserves identification for fighting crime Jean Francois-Cope. "Tearing away the veil." New York Times. May 4th, 2010: "This face covering poses a serious safety problem at a time when security cameras play an important role in the protection of public order. An armed robbery recently committed in the Paris suburbs by criminals dressed in burqas provided an unfortunate confirmation of this fact. As a mayor, I cannot guarantee the protection of the residents for whom I am responsible if masked people are allowed to run about. [...] The visibility of the face in the public sphere has always been a public safety requirement. It was so obvious that until now it did not need to be enshrined in law. But the increase in women wearing the niqab, like that of the ski mask favored by criminals, changes that. We must therefore adjust our law, without waiting for the phenomenon to spread."
pro_4_3	Identity need be visible at all times, not just upon request.	Identity need be visible at all times, not just upon request. While it is possible that security officers could ask women to lift their veils in specific security-related situations, this is insufficient. Many countries are set up with video cameras, for example, designed to be able to track the identity of individuals who may pose a risk. The veil compromises this entire system, and lifting the veil upon request obviously does not solve the issue. Nor, does it solve issues like individuals wearing the burqa in order to commit a crime. 
pro_4_4	That so few wear burqa means ban will cause little disruption	 That so few wear burqa means ban will cause little disruption Peter Worthington. "Quebec's burqa ban is not racist." The Sudbury Star (Canada_. April 2010: "That so few Muslim women in Quebec wear the niqab or burqa --we are told only a couple of dozen go along with the custom --makes the new law even more appropriate. It will cause no widespread disarray or discomfort."
pro_4_5	Ban all face-covering masks in public places, including burqas.	Ban all face-covering masks in public places, including burqas. In 1975, a number of European towns banned the wearing of ski masks and motorcycle helmets in public, specifically because they covered the face, and so posed a security and crime risk. The same logic applies to the burqa. So, the ban on the burqa and niqab should be considered part of a broader ban on all face-covering masks in public, particularly in and around crowded areas and in public transportation.
pro_4_6	Burqa ban applies to public places, not private.	Burqa ban applies to public places, not private. The focus of the burqa ban is usually on forbidding the wearing of face-covering veils in public, but not necessarily in private. The reason is purely that of security.
con_4_1	Very few wear burqa; impact too small to justify ban	 Very few wear burqa; impact too small to justify ban "What's threatening about European attacks on Muslim veils." Washington Post Editorial. May 1, 2010: "The anti-burqa cause is sweeping Europe. In addition to Belgium and France, Italy and the Netherlands are considering bans. Yet the targets of these measures are virtually nonexistent. Mr. Bacquelaine estimates that a couple of hundred women in Belgium wear a full veil. In France, one study estimated that there are 1,900 burqa wearers in a Muslim population of 5 million. [...] The idea that this poses a criminal or cultural threat is ludicrous."
con_4_2	Women can be required to lift veils for certain security reasons	 Women can be required to lift veils for certain security reasons "Banning the burqa. A bad idea." Economist. May 13, 2010: "On security, women can be required to lift their veils if necessary." This allows for the burqa and niqab to be worn, but while providing adequate measures and exceptions when security matters are at hand.
con_4_3	Women wearing burqa aren't committing crimes; others are.	Women wearing burqa aren't committing crimes; others are. While it may be true that some criminals are exploiting the burqa in order to commit crimes while concealing their identity, the women that have legitimate reasons to wear the burqa are not actually the ones committing these crimes. It is unfair to, therefore, target these women with the burqa ban for crimes that they themselves are not committing. 
con_4_4	Criminals could use ski masks just as easy as burqas	 Criminals could use ski masks just as easy as burqas  Steve Chapman. "A free society requires mutual tolerance." Chicago Tribune. May 23, 2010: "It's also claimed that covered faces are a security threat, since criminals have donned burqas in a handful of instances. Veils can be put to sinister uses — just as scarves, ski masks and sunglasses are often worn by camera-shy bank robbers. We don't ban those, and absent compelling evidence of an epidemic of burqa-enabled felonies, we shouldn't ban veils."
con_4_5	Suicide bombers don't care to disguise identity w/ burqas.	Suicide bombers don't care to disguise identity w/ burqas. The concern over wearing burqas on public transportation seems to surround fears about suicide bombers using them to conceal their identity before detonating a bomb. But, suicide bombers have never needed to or really wanted to conceal their identity before committing their act. Rather, they simply strap on explosives under baggy clothing, go to crowded places, and blow themselves up without concern about getting caught and punished because, clearly they will be dead. So, a ban on the burqa will do nothing to prevent a determined suicide bomber from committing their act. Therefore, a burqa ban does little to help counter terrorism and ensure national security.
con_4_6	Burqa ban increases tensions with Muslims and security risks	 Burqa ban increases tensions with Muslims and security risks James Chau. "Burqa ban smothers Europe's civil liberties." Global Times. May 10, 2010: "Targeting individual rights not only flags a warning sign for each one of us, but encouraging discrimination provides genuine extremists with an excuse to attack."
headline_5	Discrimination: Is a burqa ban not based on discrimination?
pro_5_1	Burqa ban is not based on racism, but sound arguments	 Burqa ban is not based on racism, but sound arguments Peter Worthington. "Quebec's burqa ban is not racist." The Sudbury Star (Canada). April 2010: "A majority of Canadians likely endorse Quebec's decision (Bill 94). Some will call it racist, unfair and even unCanadian to ban face coverings for women and feel it should be a matter of individual choice. [...] While worthy of debate and discussion, what the new Quebec law is not, is racist. Rather, it is an effort to promote or enhance racial and gender equality."
pro_5_2	If burqa ban was about racism, hijab would be banned too	 If burqa ban was about racism, hijab would be banned too Sara Malkani. "Burka: the other view." Dawn.com. February 16th, 2010: "Obviously, if this ban was about harassing Muslims -- and not the security-related need to see the faces of people going in and out of schools -- the hijab would've been banned too."
pro_5_3	Allowing burqa crimes creates suspicion and fear of Muslims	 Allowing burqa crimes creates suspicion and fear of Muslims "Would the burqa ban stop burqa crime." Ozoapbox Blog. April 6th, 2010: "Criminal activity, such as the Miranda burqa robbery, only strengthen people’s fears of the unknown under the burqa. If crime featuring the burqa rises it won’t take long for a widespread paranoid culture against burqa wearers to develop. This then leads to a massive public push to ban the burqa but for the totally wrong reasons." In the meantime, it could create alot of fears of Muslims and those that wear that burqa, niqab, and even the hijab. This would undermine relations with Muslim communities. (See also The Economist, "Running for cover", May 2010.)
pro_5_4	Many Muslims disapprove of burqa, call for ban	 Many Muslims disapprove of burqa, call for ban Sara Malkani. "Burka: the other view." Dawn.com. February 16th, 2010: "I am a Muslim woman and I do not wear the burka or the headscarf. The constant reference in liberal media to those women who choose to wear it has made it increasingly difficult for countless Muslim women such as myself to express our discomfort with it. [...] The reality is that many women have reason to dislike the garment even when they do not harbour any Islamophobic sentiments. The fact is that the burka is often imposed on women by hardliners — in parts of the Middle East, state authorities force women to wear it in all public places."
con_5_1	Banning full veil is act of discrimination and racism	 Banning full veil is act of discrimination and racism "What's threatening about European attacks on Muslim veils." Washington Post Editorial. May 1, 2010: "the deputies [of Belgium's parliament] managed to achieve near-unanimity this week on one pressing issue: discriminating against Muslims. A law passed by the lower house would ban the wearing of full Islamic face veils in any public place -- and exacerbate what is becoming an ugly European trend. [...] Like many of its neighbors, Belgium has a significant minority Muslim population -- about 3 percent of a population of 10 million. Like those neighbors, it has done a poor job of integrating Muslim immigrants, and many cluster in ghettos that can be breeding grounds for extremism. This is a serious and complex problem. But too often the response of governments has been bigotry directed at immigrants or Muslims as a whole -- which serves only to further alienate even non-devout members of the community. [...] Belgium's burqa ban is a good example." 
con_5_2	Ban on burqa/niqab is seen as part of war on Islam	 Ban on burqa/niqab is seen as part of war on Islam Noha Ahmed Eid, 18, a medical student at Cairo University and a plaintiff in a Cairo court case on a burqa ban there: "The war against the niqab is just the beginning of a war on different aspects of Islam. The state, which is supposed to be Islamic, should go back to Islam, not fight it."[4]
con_5_3	Burqa ban worsens anti-Muslim sentiments and social divisions	 Burqa ban worsens anti-Muslim sentiments and social divisions Sandeep Gopalan. "Behind the burqa." New York Times Op-Ed. January 27, 2010: "the law would only serve to expose the Muslim community to scorn and ridicule and to further heighten the serious ethnic and religious differences in French society."
headline_6	Society: Does the burqa ban improve social strength?
pro_6_1	Face-covering veils undermine social interaction/cohesion	 Face-covering veils undermine social interaction/cohesion Jean-Francois Cope. "Tearing Away the Veil" New York Times. May 4th, 2010: "The permanent concealment of the face also raises the question of social interactions in our democracies. [...] Individual liberty is vital, but individuals, like communities, must accept compromises that are indispensable to living together, in the name of certain principles that are essential to the common good. [...] [Wearing the burqa or niqab] is an insurmountable obstacle to the affirmation of a political community that unites citizens without regard to differences in sex, origin or religious faith. How can you establish a relationship with a person who, by hiding a smile or a glance — those universal signs of our common humanity — refuses to exist in the eyes of others?"
pro_6_2	Few wear burqas, but it impacts all of society.	Few wear burqas, but it impacts all of society. While some argue that the small number of people impacted makes  Laws on the burqa and niqab unnecessary, this is not the case. Major court cases and widespread controversy on the topic make it necessary for the government to take a position. These include: Should women have to de-veil for photo ID's? Should women have to de-veil when entering banks? Should stores have to allow those that wear burqas? Should businesses have to employ those that wear them? Should schools have to accept veiled students? And, should schools have to accept adults that wear the veil and come to school to pick up their kid in a veil, when it may be hard to determine if they are actually the parent? Should it be banned in public transportation, where terrorist threats are greatest? And, what about the babies of those that wear burqas, whose vitamin D deficiencies cause them to develop rickets? What's the policy on pregnant women wearing the burqa? And, what about driving, when a burqa limits range of vision and poses a traffic safety issue?
pro_6_3	Ban encourages Muslim communities to re-think burqa	 Ban encourages Muslim communities to re-think burqa Sara Malkani. "Burka: the other view." Dawn.com. February 16th, 2010: "The ban might encourage them to resist the pressure to wear the burka. It might also encourage Muslim communities to think critically about the garment and whether it is compatible with a modern, secular society where women and men are equals." 
pro_6_4	Burqa and niquab make people uncomfortable	 Burqa and niquab make people uncomfortable Jack Straw, a British Labour politician, said in 2008 that he would prefer Muslim women to uncover their faces during appointments with him, because he “felt uncomfortable about talking to someone ‘face-to-face’ who [he] could not see.”[5]
pro_6_5	The burqa and niqab are meant to make women look unappealing.	The burqa and niqab are meant to make women look unappealing. Why would society want to condone something that intentionally makes women look bad? While there are ways of maintaining modesty in dress, the burqa goes beyond this in an effort to make women look like shapeless, faceless blobs. There is no reason for this extreme denigration of the female form.
con_6_1	Free societies don't require integration; burqa is fine	 Free societies don't require integration; burqa is fine Steve Chapman. "A free society requires mutual tolerance." Chicago Tribune. May 23, 2010: "A more imaginative argument is that covering the face is an attack on civilized norms. 'The niqab and the burqa represent a refusal to exist as a person in the eyes of others,' says French parliamentary leader Jean-Francois Cope. Journalist Christopher Hitchens calls them 'the most aggressive sign of a refusal to integrate or accommodate.' [...] But in a free society, none of us is obligated to integrate. The Amish don't. Neither do the Hare Krishnas. Or Trappist monks. Wearing a suicide bomb around your waist is aggressive. Concealing your face is peaceable."
con_6_2	Women wearing burqa are integrating, but set terms	 Women wearing burqa are integrating, but set terms Steve Chapman. "A free society requires mutual tolerance." Chicago Tribune. May 23, 2010: "Veiled women are not refusing to exist in the eyes of others. They, like all the rest of us, are merely deciding on what terms to make their existence visible."
con_6_3	Most are willing to lift burqa when necessary	 Most are willing to lift burqa when necessary "Is France right to ban wearing the burka in public? NO:" Stephanie Street on Guardian. March 21, 2010: "She took it off when she went to work because she had to, knowing she was 'going to get the reward for the time I was wearing it, making God happy by fulfilling his covenant to me.' [...] She related to me an incident that took place when she had her photo taken for her university ID. They requested she remove her niqab, so she asked for a female photographer. When the male photographer at the adjacent booth asked if she'd like the men to look away, she told them not to worry about it, not wanting to cause a scene. And when he did still turn away, she was touched: 'I thought, I just wish people could be kind like that.'"
con_6_4	Burqa ban based on bias of Western cultural superiority	 Burqa ban based on bias of Western cultural superiority Monty Self. "Burqa Ban Will Erode Mutual Understanding." Ethics Daily. April 7, 2010: "Banning the burqa on grounds that it is not French, that it destroys the French ideal, that it is not compatible with French culture, is just as damaging. This position fails to acknowledge the evolution of society. Cultures always evolve. The hyper-protection of the current state of a society only reveals our own assumptions of superiority. It reveals that we think ourselves better than the rest of the world. The danger here is that one day we will be surpassed and ultimately subjugated by those whom we rejected. Our current culture will cease to evolve and be left behind."
con_6_5	Interacting with veiled women is not hard	 Interacting with veiled women is not hard Steve Chapman. "A free society requires mutual tolerance." Chicago Tribune. May 23, 2010: "It may be difficult to interact with someone whose face you can't see. But lots of things that are difficult when unfamiliar soon become tolerable or irrelevant even. [...] When I first met someone I knew was gay, many years ago, I was very ill at ease. The first time I conversed with someone wearing a safety pin through her eyebrow, likewise. In both cases, I got over it. I suspect that if they had no choice, the anti-burqa crowd would adapt as well."
con_6_6	Discomfort with burqa is inadequate justification for ban	 Discomfort with burqa is inadequate justification for ban Michael White. "France, don't ban the niqab." Guardian. February 2010: "You need a much better reason than personal discomfort to do that in a free society. I don't much care for facial piercings or tattoos either. "So you want to make yourself ugly and unemployable, do you?" I mutter to myself as I pass those who have them in the street. But we shouldn't ban them either."
headline_7	Young women: Does ban help/hurt teens that wear burqa?
pro_7_1	Children are in no position to make choice about burqa.	Children are in no position to make choice about burqa. An adolescent cannot be said to be making an independent choice about whether to wear the burqa. This choice is heavily influenced by their father, mother, and surrounding community. In this case, the child is in no position to reject these forces and to go without the burqa. They have no recourse and cannot be expected to complain to their teachers or school principles. Any expectation that they can do so places an unfair burden on the shoulders of individuals that are just beginning to learn about the world around them, ethics, and faith. A burqa ban protects children from being placed in this unfortunate situation. 
pro_7_2	Burqa ban protects children from being picked-up by impersonators.	Burqa ban protects children from being picked-up by impersonators. In 2008, The Dutch banned parents from coming to pick up their young children from school while wearing burqas. The rationale was that it was a security risk, as teachers and the children themselves needed to be able to verify that an individual was actually the parent of a child.[6]
pro_7_3	Burqas undermine communications lessons for Muslim children	 Burqas undermine communications lessons for Muslim children Ronald Plasterk, the Dutch education minister, responsible for the 2008 decision to ban burqas in Dutch schools said: "It is important for children to learn that proper communication requires being able to look the other person in the eye."[7]
con_7_1	Risk of further isolation.	Risk of further isolation. Should the ban be enacted, there is a possibility that women who were previously forced by their husbands to wear burqa would face further isolation in the home. "Running for cover", The Economist, May 2010
headline_8	Health: Are burqas and niqabs detrimental to health?
pro_8_1	Burqa prevents women from absorbing adequate sunlight	 Burqa prevents women from absorbing adequate sunlight Daniel Pipes. "Ban the Burqa - and the Niqab Too." Jerusalem Post. August 1, 2007: "British research offers another reason to drop the burqa and niqab, finding that covered women and their breast-fed children lack sufficient amounts of vitamin D (which the skin absorbs from sunlight) and are at serious risk of rickets."
pro_8_2	Burqas can lead to rickets for babies of burqa wearers	 Burqas can lead to rickets for babies of burqa wearers Daniel Pipes. "Burqa Crime." The American Conservative Union Foundation. September 30, 2009: "new studies in both England and Ireland have found that covered women (and their breast-fed children) tend to get rickets disease due to an insufficiency of vitamin D, which the skin absorbs from sunlight."
con_8_1	Burqa ban violates rights of women to their own body.	Burqa ban violates rights of women to their own body. According most laws nowadays, everybody has a freedom to his or her own body. The choice to wear a burqa or niqab on her body is part of her freedom to her body. Then, why are we violating this most basic law with a burqa ban? Even if we conclude that the burqa is bad for women's health and even for their babies, so are many things that are legal, like cigarettes and alcohol. That the burqa is bad for women's health, however unfortunate that may be, nevertheless does not give the government the right to take away a woman's right to her own body and to treat it how she wishes.
headline_9	Enforcement: Is enforcing a ban feasible?
pro_9_1	Foreigners adopt local customs in Islamic countries; same in West	 Foreigners adopt local customs in Islamic countries; same in West If non-Muslims are forced to wear the Hijab or other head-coverings in some Muslim countries when they visit, why is it that Muslim women visiting the West should be protected from not-wearing the burqa/niqab in the West? If the rule is that women must adopt the local custom, then let that be the rule. 
pro_9_2	Burqa is not prescribed by any Koranic text	 Burqa is not prescribed by any Koranic text According to Mohammed Moussaoui, head of the French Council of the Muslim Faith, "no Koranic text prescribes the wearing of the burqa or niqab". "Running for cover", The Economist, May 2010
con_9_1	Will tourists be forbidden from wearing burqa?	 Will tourists be forbidden from wearing burqa? Agnès Poirier. "Sarkozy's niqab ban: a legal nightmare." Guardian. April 28th, 2010: "If the niqab ban is passed as law, the question then arises of how you make it effective. Do you also forbid visiting tourists from Saudi Arabia from wearing it?"
con_9_2	Ban unenforceable against those believing God commands burqa	 Ban unenforceable against those believing God commands burqa "Quebec's Niqab Ban: What will be next?" Khalifah. April 25th, 2010: "Man made legislation is subject to the whims and contradictions of the human mind. May Allah protect us and enable us to practice our deen [wearing the Burqa]."
headline_10	Public opinion: Where does public opinion stand on these things?
pro_10_1	A majority of Europeans tend to support a ban.	A majority of Europeans tend to support a ban. A 2010 poll found that a majority backed one in France (70%), Spain (65%), Italy (63%), Britain (57%) and Germany (50%).[8][9]
pro_10_2	Majority of Canadians support Quebec burqa ban	 Majority of Canadians support Quebec burqa ban Gurmukh Singh. "Niqab ban gets unanimous support in Canada." UMMID.com. March 28th, 2010: "Canadians have unanimously supported the niqab ban announced by French-speaking Quebec province this week. After France, the Canadian province is the first in North America to ban the niqab, a top-to-toe dress worn by Muslim women. [...] According to the survey - conducted by Angus Reid for the Montreal Gazette newspaper - 95 percent people in Quebec province supported the law to ban the Muslim dress which they say contradicts the liberal, secular values of their society. [...] Across Canada - which has 10 provinces and three national territories - four out of five people supported the ban."
con_10_1	Ban on Burqa is supported by a small minority in America.	Ban on Burqa is supported by a small minority in America. A 2010 poll found that, with a fairly strong culture of religious freedom in America, only a minority (33%) was in favor of banning the burqa and/or niqab.[10]
