title	Greece bailout
question	Should the European Union and the IMF bail out Greece?
headline_1	Default: Would Greek default be disastrous?
pro_1_1	Default would harm the whole euro area	 Default would harm the whole euro area "Problems in any euro area member country are bound to have strong negative spill-over effects for its partners." ["How to deal with sovereign default in Europe:Towards a Euro(pean) Monetary Fund", by Daniel Gros and Thomas Mayer, February 2010]
pro_1_3	Default would devastate Greek and global economies	 Default would devastate Greek and global economies Stephanie Flanders. "Default is no soft option". BBC News. May 2010: "The short-term cost to the economy would be huge. Imagine the Greek government stopped paying interest on its debt tomorrow. It would still have a primary deficit - excluding interest payments - of more than 8% of national income, and it might not have anyone to borrow that money from. That could mean more austerity, not less, especially if the country remained in the euro. There would also be the collapse of the domestic banking system to consider, Greek banks being the largest holders of Greek sovereign debt. And that's before you get even to the costs of contagion (or spread) for other countries, as investors wonder who will be next." 
pro_1_4	Greek bailout avoids a second global economic crisis	 Greek bailout avoids a second global economic crisis "The European Union's Greece Bailout Problem." US News & World Report. May 2010 "Had Greece defaulted on its loans German banks would have taken huge losses. That would have created a domino effect and a second world banking crisis. It's a no win situation. All they have done is postpone the day of reckoning. The global economy is playing an old shell game. It's days are numbered."
pro_1_5	General statements in favor of Greece bailout	 General statements in favor of Greece bailout
con_1_1	Default is the best option for Greece	 Default is the best option for Greece Jeffrey Miron. "Let Greece Default". Forbes. May 2010: "Rather than bail out Greece, the E.U. and IMF should allow it to default. This will hurt Greece's creditors, but those entities assumed the risk when they loaned to a country long known for its profligate ways. If Greece does default, its economy may suffer in the short term. External credit will be scarce to non-existent, so Greece will have to live within it means. But however painful this adjustment may be, it is unavoidable if Greece wants to join the first rank of nations; current policies are unsustainable from every perspective, so the sooner Greece abandons them the better."
con_1_2	Letting Greece default improves long-term credibility of Euro	 Letting Greece default improves long-term credibility of Euro Jim Rogers, Chairman of Rogers Holdings said on MSNBC: "If Greece went bankrupt, it will clean up the system, (the) euro will go down for a while but then in my view, the euro will be a very strong currency."[1]
con_1_3	General statements against  Greece bailout	 General statements against  Greece bailout
headline_2	Euro: Is the stability of the euro at risk?
pro_2_1	Greece bailout essential to stabilizing the Euro	 Greece bailout essential to stabilizing the Euro Sundeep Matharu. "Europe's $1 trillion Bailout Might not be Able to Save the Euro from Going Down." TopNews. May 2010: "The Euro's largest player, the European Central Bank, has yielded to political demands and, amongst other things, will start purchasing sovereign bonds in the market. This transmits the danger of default from financially extended countries such as Greece, Portugal and Spain to the Euro zone all together. And the ECB has to finance it by successfully printing Euros, further weakening the currency. A feeble Euro will make exports more gung ho. But if the Euro goes too down, its rank as a reserve currency will deteriorate."
con_2_1	Greece does not present a threat to the Euro	 Greece does not present a threat to the Euro Patrick Barron. "Greece Needs Capitalism And Freedom." The Bulletin. May 2010: "The Greek crisis is simply that the Greek government is spending more Euros than it receives in tax payments, and private banks are balking at lending it more. Since the Greeks no longer have a national currency, they cannot debase it and pay off their creditors with cheapened drachmas. So, the Greek government is left with the choice of raising taxes, cutting spending, or some combination of the two that will satisfy its creditors. Now, would someone please tell me why and in what form this Greek financial crisis, serious as it is to the Greeks themselves, constitutes a threat to the Euro?"
headline_3	Morality: Is the bail out of Greece morally permissible?
pro_3_1	Bailing out Greece is a necessary evil	 Bailing out Greece is a necessary evil David Moenning. "Greece Makes Choice Between 'Collapse or Salvation'" IstockAnalyst. May 2010: "We are waging together a difficult and relentless battle dealing with the problems — the dimensions of which one could never have imagined. It is true, we were the first to speak of the crisis — a crisis of politics, a crisis of institutions, a crisis of values which in turn led to the huge economic crisis. No citizen of Greece could ever have imagined the size of the debt and the deficit which the former government had caused and hid upon its exit. This is not the time for accusations, however. The people of Greece are fully aware of where they lie. The consequences, however, are manifold. We have no other choices and no time, so accessing the bailout is inevitable."
pro_3_2	Austerity measures of Greek bailout set good precedent	 Austerity measures of Greek bailout set good precedent David D. Moenning. "Greece Makes Choice Between 'Collapse or Salvation'." American Foreign Policy. May 2010: "Although the spending cuts are severe, the harsh terms for aid should serve as a deterrent to other countries looking for a bailout. With the rest of the PIGIS (Portugal, Italy, Greece, Ireland, and Spain) experiencing tough times due to massive debt buildups, Germany doesn't want to provide a quick-and-easy bailout to all comers. When countries see that Greece's path, with the IMF's strict terms, is not easy, they will do everything to avoid that for themselves."
con_3_1	Greece bailout is moral hazard; encourages fiscal irresponsibility	 Greece bailout is moral hazard; encourages fiscal irresponsibility Sundeep Matharu. "Europe's $1 trillion Bailout Might not be Able to Save the Euro from Going Down." TopNews. May 2010: "The more the IMF bails out countries, the more we can expect countries to slip into crises in the future because it encourages risky behavior on the part of governments and investors who fully expect that if anything goes wrong, the IMF will come to their rescue. The bailout of Mexico, for example, was a signal to the world that if anything went wrong in emerging economies, the IMF would come to investors' rescue."
con_3_2	Bailing out Greece undermines credibility of EU rules	 Bailing out Greece undermines credibility of EU rules "Greek Bailout Would Deal Major Blow to Euro". Frances Robinson. February 2010 "The viability of the whole framework - nothing less - is at stake. Financial assistance for countries that violated the terms of their participation in EMU would be a major blow for the credibility of the whole framework."
con_3_3	Bailout forces Greece to accept unfair conditions	 Bailout forces Greece to accept unfair conditions "Bailing out Greece is not the answer". Allister Heath. February 2010: "Greece and any other European economy that benefits from a bailout would officially have to fulfill extremely strict conditions; they would in effect lose their fiscal independence, a move which would be unlikely to fill the Greek unions with joy. Mass anti-cuts demos are already taking place; in truth, Athens is stretching credibility beyond breaking point when it claims that it will slash its budget deficit from 12.7 per cent of GDP in 2009 to 2.8 per cent by 2012."
headline_4	Efficacy: Will a bailout help solve the problem?
pro_4_1	Bailout of Greece provides long-term solution.	Bailout of Greece provides long-term solution. Bailout is the only way from the current crisis. Should Greece default, the whole EU would be sent spirally into a crisis, the euro would depreciate and thus the overall economic situation of the euro area would worsen further. Preventing such contagion and setting the groundwork for financial sustainability in Europe is a long-term solution that comes from the bailout.
pro_4_2	Bailout of Greece will help prevent contagion	 Bailout of Greece will help prevent contagion "European leaders set program to defend euro". MarketWatch. May 2010: "These are strong measures that will help to secure global economic and financial stability, and preserve the global economic recovery. Implementation of actions to put public finances on a sustainable footing is key to restoring economic health in Europe."
pro_4_3	EU has the will to defend the Euro	 EU has the will to defend the Euro "Statement following the meeting of the Heads of States and Government of the Euro Area Brussels". José Manuel Durão Barroso. May 2010 "The important point common to all these agreed elements today is that we will defend the euro whatever it takes. We have several instruments at our disposal and we will use them. The European Institutions – Council, Commission, European Central Bank and of course the Euro area Member States. This was the clear decision unanimously taken today."
con_4_1	Bailout does not address policy problems in Greece; delays inevitable	 Bailout does not address policy problems in Greece; delays inevitable Jeff Miron. "Let Greece Default". Forbes. May 2010: "A bailout will not address the fundamental causes of Greece's fiscal problems. Greece has an expansive but highly inefficient civil service and an economy stifled by regulation, favoritism and rent-seeking. These policies have generated double-digit deficits and a debt-to-GDP ratio well over 100%. A bailout [...] does nothing to fix the misguided policies that have generated Greece's existing debt and ongoing deficits. Bailout therefore merely postpones the day of reckoning."
con_4_2	Greek debt is too large for bailout to solve	 Greek debt is too large for bailout to solve Bill Bonner. "Greek bailout only adds to debt." The Christian Science Monitor. May 10th, 2010: "Greeks borrowed money they couldn’t reasonably expect to pay back. [...] The plans of the ruling classes are not merely unjust. They are unworkable. Over the next three years, Greece will add $50 billion in deficits, stabilizing the debt at 150% of GDP. It will also need to come up with $70 billion to pay off debt that matures over the next two years. That is more than the amount offered in the bailout. [...] when a debt cannot be repaid, there’s no use pretending. When you cannot keep up with the interest on a debt, it is added to the principle. The debt grows, becoming evermore unmanageable. It’s better to admit the error as soon as possible and start organizing the details of your financial funeral."
con_4_3	Bailout will not stop contagion in Europe	 Bailout will not stop contagion in Europe "Bailouts Don’t Prevent Contagion", Kathy Lien, May 2010 "The market is obsessed with contagion fears and unfortunately, bailouts don’t always prevent contagion. If you recall, the 1982 Mexico bailout did not stop the spread to Brazil, Venezuela and Argentina, and the IMF rescue package for Thailand in October 1997 did little to stop the spread to Indonesia and Korea."
con_4_4	Greece bailout adds to debt, does more harm than good	 Greece bailout adds to debt, does more harm than good Jim Rogers, chairman of Rogers Holdings said in an interview with CNBC in April of 2010: "The way to solve this debt problem is not with more debt. The idea that you would solve a problem with too much debt and too much consumption with more debt and more consumption, that defies comprehension," Rogers said.
con_4_5	Bailout addresses wrong problem: liquidity not solvency	 Bailout addresses wrong problem: liquidity not solvency Felix Salmon. "Why the Greek bailout won’t work." Reuters. May 3, 2010: "The fact is that the bailout package really doesn’t address the problem, which is one of solvency rather than liquidity. The European loans are being extended at about 5%, which while much lower than market rates is still not low enough to make anything approaching a dent in Greece’s debt dynamics. And by the time the bailout package is exhausted, if Greece even gets that far, its debt-to-GDP ratio will be significantly higher than it is right now, thanks to both a rising numerator and a declining denominator."
headline_5	Feasibility: Is it feasible to bail out Greece?
pro_5_1	Bailing out Greece is the only feasible option	 Bailing out Greece is the only feasible option "A Greek bailout: is it legally possible and what will it cost to EU taxpayers?". OpenEurope. May 2010 "If these structural differences are to be overcome and the eurozone is to survive for the long term, ongoing fiscal transfers from the rich German-led bloc to the poorer bloc, consisting of countries such as Greece and Spain, might be the only feasible option."
con_5_1	Bailing out Greece is too expensive for EU	 Bailing out Greece is too expensive for EU "Counting the cost of a euro-zone bailout". The Press. May 2010: "A three-year bailout of Greece, Portugal, Ireland and Spain could potentially cost €544 billion, or roughly 6 percent of the entire euro zone's gross domestic product (GDP) in 2009. David Mackie, an economist at JP Morgan, expects such a bailout would cost 8 percent of the GDP of the unaffected euro zone countries."
headline_6	History: Have large-scale bailouts worked in the past?
pro_6_1	IMF bailouts worked in the UK in the 1970s	 IMF bailouts worked in the UK in the 1970s "A Primer on IMF Bailouts". The New York Times. December 22, 1997: "In early 1976, a steady loss of confidence in the pound stirred amid expectations that the budget deficit, current account deficit and inflation were set to worsen, and that the government would encourage a depreciation to boost the economy. In late September, after a one-day fall of 4 percent in the pound, Denis Healey, then Chancellor of the Exchequer, unveiled plans to seek $3.9 billion from the IMF. The new policies worked quickly, in part because the forecasts of worsening deficits proved too pessimistic. Within one year, Britain beat its IMF budget deficit target, the current account was back in the black and the government was trying to restrain the pound's rise."
pro_6_2	Marshall plan was effective bailout after WWII	 Marshall plan was effective bailout after WWII "History: European Union." History.com: "The Marshall Plan was a U.S.-sponsored plan designed to rehabilitate the economies of 17 western and southern European nations in order to create stable conditions in which democratic institutions could survive. [...] some $13 billion worth of economic aid was distributed over the next four years, helping to restore industrial and agricultural production, establish financial stability, and expand trade. Direct grants accounted for the vast majority of the aid, with the remainder in the form of loans. The Marshall Plan was very successful; several western European countries experienced a rise in their gross national products of 15 to 25 percent during this period. The plan contributed greatly to the rapid renewal of the western European chemical, engineering, and steel industries. The Marshall Plan concept of economic aid was so successful that President Harry S. Truman extended it to less developed countries throughout the world."
pro_6_3	IMF bailouts worked in the Mexico peso crisis	 IMF bailouts worked in the Mexico peso crisis "A Retrospective on the Mexican Bailout." The Cato Institute. Winter 2002: "The International Monetary Fund’s bailout of Mexico in 1995 was a success because it restored confidence in the collapsing peso, led to a quick economic recovery, and possibly stemmed the outbreak of a global systemic financial crisis. The bailout, moreover, helped keep Mexico on a market-oriented track."
pro_6_4	National bailouts have succeeded with tough austerity measures	 National bailouts have succeeded with tough austerity measures Sam Norton. "Necessary Evil: Why the US Should Push for a Greek Bailout." American Foreign Policy. March 28th, 2010: "Critics contend that past interventions that imposed austerity have had disastrous consequences. While this did occur in the short term in some cases, such as the Asian economic crisis of 1998, in the long run, budgetary restraint is the only way to set countries on the path toward sustainable growth, as opposed to a temporary expansion followed by yet another crisis. Countries such as Thailand, Indonesia, and South Korea, all of which accepted IMF loans in the late 1990s, rooted out corporate mismanagement and other practices that inhibited productivity, and the result was protracted economic expansion over the course of the past decade."
con_6_1	IMF bailouts failed in the Asian financial crisis	 IMF bailouts failed in the Asian financial crisis Daryl Montgomery. "Will the Eurozone Crisis Crash World Markets?" May 2010: "A small country with a currency problem causing major problems in the global financial system has a recent precedent in Asia in 1997. The Thai baht, which was pegged to the U.S. dollar, came under speculative attack in May of that year and the government was forced to drop the dollar peg and float the currency on July 2nd. The problems in Thailand, a relatively small economy, then spread throughout East and South Asia. They eventually washed up on the shore of the U.S., with a mini-crash in the stock market that dropped the Dow Jones Industrial Average 7% in one day. The selling may have been worse, but stock trading was halted early that day. While events in 1997 had their biggest impact in East and South Asia, echoes of the problem wound up impacting U.S. and other stock markets into 1998. The current situation is much worse in 2010 than it was in 1997. Bailouts were used to deal with the problems in 1997.  Governments and central banks have already used this tool to a massive extent for the last two years. If we are having another crisis, clearly it isn't working."
con_6_2	No true success was achieved in the Mexico peso crisis	 No true success was achieved in the Mexico peso crisis "A Retrospective on the Mexican Bailout", The Cato Institute, Winter 2002 "Proponents of those views rarely mention the high costs of the IMF’s intervention to ordinary Mexicans, and they downplay the cost—namely in the form of moral hazard—to the world economy. More importantly, policymakers have never seriously considered market-oriented alternatives to official bailouts in Mexico or elsewhere, yet the evidence strongly suggests that market solutions offer greater benefits and lower costs."
con_6_3	Keynesian economic policies fail in the long term	 Keynesian economic policies fail in the long term "Keynes’ Folly Hits Home in Greece", Dan Amoss, February 2010 "The endgame of Keynesian policy is on display in Greece right now. The reputation of loose government spending as a serious policy will, by the end of 2010, be dealt some deserved blows. These policies ultimately lead to bankruptcy, not prosperity. When responding to a criticism of the long-run costs of his prescriptions, John Maynard Keynes, (the economist so revered by fans of big government) quipped, 'In the long run, we are all dead.' Well, he may be dead now, but plenty of people are still alive, and living with the consequences of his distorted view of reality. Production comes before consumption."
headline_7	EU responsibility: Is the EU responsible to bailout Greece
pro_7_1	2010 bailout is a matter of EU solidarity	 2010 bailout is a matter of EU solidarity "EU visit starts in Greece, Stark says no bailout." Reuters. May 2010: "What happens in one member state affects all others, especially as we have a common currency, which means we have a common responsibility. The euro currency area is a "monetary zone of complete solidarity."
con_7_1	EU not responsible for bailing out reckless Greece	 EU not responsible for bailing out reckless Greece "The EU’s Greek Bailout Mistake." The Independent Institute. May 2010: "Members of the EU agreed to limit their deficits and public debt as a condition of membership, and Greece violated the agreement, which landed them in financial trouble. One way to look at this bailout is to ask whether, when the rules are violated, the violators should suffer the consequences, or be helped by those who did not violate the rules. On that ground, the answer is clear: Greece violated the rules and should not be bailed out. Furthermore, the bailout violates the EU’s own rules saying the Community shall not assume the commitments of central governments."
con_7_2	Greece bailout is not fair to European taxpayers	 Greece bailout is not fair to European taxpayers Wilhelm Hankel, said it sets a terrible precedent: "It is not just about one country. After Greece there’s Portugal, then there’s Spain, then there’s Ireland. I added up the amount of debts that just this group of countries might need. It is more than two trillion euros. Europe cannot afford this and our taxpayers are not able to pay this."[4]
headline_8	Legality: Is the Greece bailout legal?
pro_8_1	Greece bailout is perfectly legal	 Greece bailout is perfectly legal "A fake Greek tragedy and the EMU future", Antonio Lettieri, April 2010 "There is a clause stating that when a member-state 'is in difficulties or is seriously threatened with severe difficulties caused by natural disasters or exceptional occurrences beyond its control, the European Council, on a proposal from the Commission, may grant, under certain conditions, Union financial assistance to the member-state concerned.'"
con_8_1	Greece bailout is illegal under EU law	 Greece bailout is illegal under EU law "Five Reasons Not to Support a Bailout of Greece." The Heritage Foundation. May 2010: "Article 125.1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union expressly forbids one member state bailing out another. It states: 'The Union shall not be liable for or assume the commitments of central governments, regional, local or other public authorities, other bodies governed by public law, or public undertakings of any Member State, without prejudice to mutual financial guarantees for the joint execution of a specific project. A Member State shall not be liable for or assume the commitments of central governments, regional, local or other public authorities, other bodies governed by public law, or public undertakings of another Member State, without prejudice to mutual financial guarantees for the joint execution of a specific project.' Lord Lamont, Secretary of the Treasury when Britain, pointed out that the Maastricht Treaty specifically ruled out such bailouts so that responsible members of the Eurozone would not have to subsidize irresponsible ones."
headline_9	US contributions: Should the US contribute to a bailout?
pro_9_1	US only indirectly helping Greece through IMF contributions.	US only indirectly helping Greece through IMF contributions. The United States is not actually making a direct low-interest loan or gift to Greece. Rather, the US makes annual contributions to the IMF of around 17% of its annual funds, which are used for a variety of international financial loan and stabilization packages. In this case a good portion of those funds will - rightly - be directed to Greece. It is wrong, therefore, for conservatives to use the talking-point of a the "US is bailing out Greece". This is not the case. US funds are merely being used by the IMF, as they always are, to do exactly what they are supposed to do: ensure global financial stability and, in the process, US interests.
pro_9_2	Stabilizing Greek/EU crisis is essential to US economy	 Stabilizing Greek/EU crisis is essential to US economy Sam Norton. "Necessary Evil: Why the US Should Push for a Greek Bailout." American Foreign Policy. March 28th, 2010: "With the US facing significant economic challenges of its own, it is easy for it to overlook the impact of the so-called “Great Recession” on the rest of the world. In today’s interconnected marketplace, however, economic problems in foreign countries can have major political ramifications for the rest of the world. Just as the Great Depression contributed to the rise of authoritarian regimes in Europe, today’s economic downturn could lead to the destruction of the American-led liberal order if the negative repercussions of the crisis cannot be contained. [...] One of the most prominent trouble spots in the global economy is Greece. The government’s massive and rapidly expanding debt burden has raised concerns that the nation might be forced to declare bankruptcy. In light of this danger, the US ought to take action to resolve Europe’s internal dilemma. It should push for measures to contain the crisis while preventing similar situations from arising elsewhere."
con_9_1	Greece bailout is not fair to American taxpayers	 Greece bailout is not fair to American taxpayers "Republicans introduce legislation to prevent Euro bailout", The Washington Post, May 2010 "This legislation would require that countries like Greece cut spending and put their own fiscal house in order, instead of looking to the United States for a bailout. We face record unemployment and a debt crisis of our own, and American taxpayers should not be forced to bear the risk for nations that have avoided making tough choices."
con_9_2	U.S. does not have adequate funds to bailout Greece	 U.S. does not have adequate funds to bailout Greece Bailout of Greece is Important to America, By T.F. Stern, May 2010 "The United States is supplying 17% of the IMF money handed over to Greece; that’s US taxpayer dollars being spent to keep Greece afloat and money we have to borrow from places like China because we don’t have the money either. I want you to think about that for a moment; we’re borrowing money and going deeper in debt to help another country which is even deeper in debt. What’s wrong with this picture?"
con_9_3	U.S. is risking its own sovereign debt crisis	 U.S. is risking its own sovereign debt crisis "Five Reasons Not to Support a Bailout of Greece", The Heritage Foundation, May 2010 "It was bad enough when the federal government bailed out AIG, and then Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and then many of the mega banks, and then GM and Chrysler. At least these firms had the modest merit of being U.S. companies employing U.S. workers. Even if U.S. government finances were in pristine shape, U.S. taxpayer dollars should not be used to bail out a perennially dysfunctional state. But as spending-driven trillion dollar budget deficits and a presidential debt commission starkly evidence, the U.S. is seriously risking its own Greek-style sovereign debt crisis. Fortunately, the U.S. does not need an IMF bailout; it needs only a President willing to acknowledge that he has led the country on a Grecian spending binge it cannot afford."
headline_10	Public Opinion: Does public opinion support Greek bailout?
pro_10_1	Public opinion supports the Greece bailout	 Public opinion supports the Greece bailout "Europe Acts Swiftly on Long-Delayed Greek Bailout", The New York Times, May 2010: "The reaction of the unions so far has been mild by Greek standards. Public opinion in Greece is in shock and realizes that Greeks have no other choice but to do what is necessary to prevent economic collapse. A social consensus exists that this is necessary."
con_10_1	Public opinion does not support the Greece bailout	 Public opinion does not support the Greece bailout "Three dead as Greece protest turns violent." BBC News. May 2010: "The protest became violent, with petrol bombs thrown at police, who responded with pepper spray and tear gas. Protesters are angered by spending cuts and tax rises planned in return for a 110 billion euro (£95 billion) bail-out for Greece."
con_10_2	Eurozone publics do not support the Greece bailout	 Eurozone publics do not support the Greece bailout "Five Reasons Not to Support a Bailout of Greece", The Heritage Foundation, May 2010 "It is not difficult to see why Germans and other Eurozone publics are opposed to bailing out the profligate Greek government. Having introduced a constitutional requirement to balance its budget, the German government is now asking the public to forego tax cuts in favor of its less responsible Mediterranean neighbor. A poll by British think tank Open Europe in June 2009 found that 70 percent of German voters were opposed to bailing out other Eurozone countries in financial trouble."
