title	Arizona illegal immigration law
question	
headline_1	Principles: Is Arizona's law sound in principle?
pro_1_1	Arizona immigration law merely enforces existing law	 Arizona immigration law merely enforces existing law Kris Kobach. "Why Arizona Drew a Line." New York Times. April 28th, 2010: "we already have plenty of federal immigration laws on the books, and the typical illegal alien is guilty of breaking many of them. What we need is for the executive branch to enforce the laws that we already have."
pro_1_2	Arizona has every right to fight illegal immigration	 Arizona has every right to fight illegal immigration Arizona Governor Jan Brewer said at the bill-signing: "Border-related violence and crime due to illegal immigration are critically important issues to the people of our state. We cannot sacrifice our safety to the murderous greed of drug cartels. We cannot stand idly by as drop houses, kidnappings and violence compromise our quality of life."[1]
pro_1_3	Arizona immigration law awkward, but necessary	 Arizona immigration law awkward, but necessary Jonah Goldberg. "Arizona's ugly but necessary immigration law." Los Angeles Times. April 29th, 2010: "I agree that there's something ugly about the police asking citizens for their 'papers.' (There's nothing particularly ugly about asking illegal immigrants for their papers, though.) There's also something ugly about American citizens being physically searched at airports, or about IRS agents prying into nearly all of your personal-financial transactions or, thanks to the passage of ObamaCare, serving as health insurance enforcers. In other words, many government functions are unappealing. That's not in itself an argument against them. The Patriot Act was ugly – and necessary."
pro_1_4	Fear-mongering surrounding Arizona law is unjustified	 Fear-mongering surrounding Arizona law is unjustified James Edwards. "Arizona Gets it Right on Illegal Immigration." Human Events. April 27th, 2010: "The law, badly needed to fight the vicious foreign-born crime epidemic that illegal immigration nurtures in Arizona, bears little resemblance to the fear-mongering claims of the law’s opponents." 
pro_1_5	General statements in favor of Arizona's illegal immigration law	 General statements in favor of Arizona's illegal immigration law
con_1_1	Arizona illegal immigration law is indecent & mean-spirited	 Arizona illegal immigration law is indecent & mean-spirited Richard Cohen. "In Arizona, immigration creates another Tea Party moment." Washington Post. April 27th, 2010: "Arizona's draconian new immigration law is an abomination -- racist, arbitrary, oppressive, mean-spirited, unjust. About the only hopeful thing that can be said is that the legislation, which Republican Gov. Jan Brewer signed Friday, goes so outrageously far that it may well be unconstitutional."
con_1_2	Arizona law creates a class of suspects	 Arizona law creates a class of suspects Michael Gerson. "A test of Arizona's political character." Washington Post. April 28, 2010: "This law creates a suspect class, based in part on ethnicity, considered guilty until they prove themselves innocent. It makes it harder for illegal immigrants to live without scrutiny -- but it also makes it harder for some American citizens to live without suspicion and humiliation. Americans are not accustomed to the command 'Your papers, please,' however politely delivered."
con_1_3	Arizona law creates environment of fear and recrimination	 Arizona law creates environment of fear and recrimination Raul A. Reyes. "Arizona's un-American immigration law." Los Angeles Times. April 28th, 2010: "many of Arizona's roughly 2 million Latinos are wondering about how this law will affect their personal freedom. They are concerned for their children's safety. They are searching for identification documents for older relatives. Many Latinos, no doubt, will be afraid to venture out without 'papers,' even if they are legal residents or U.S. citizens. This type of fear has no place in our society."
con_1_4	Statements against Arizona immigration law	 Statements against Arizona immigration law Singer Linda Ronstadt. “My family, of both German and Mexican heritage, has a long history in Arizona. It has been our diverse and shared history in this state that unites us and makes us stronger. What Governor Brewer signed into law last week is a piece of legislation that threatens the very heart of this great state."[2]
headline_2	Reasonable suspicion: Will reasonable suspicion of illegality be applied fairly?
pro_2_1	Arizona cops will justly apply reasonable suspicion of illegals	 Arizona cops will justly apply "reasonable suspicion" of illegals Kris Kobach. "Why Arizona Drew a Line." New York Times. April 28th, 2010: "[Argument:] 'Reasonable suspicion' is a meaningless term that will permit police misconduct. [Counter-argument:] Over the past four decades, federal courts have issued hundreds of opinions defining those two words. The Arizona law didn’t invent the concept: Precedents list the factors that can contribute to reasonable suspicion; when several are combined, the 'totality of circumstances' that results may create reasonable suspicion that a crime has been committed. [...] For example, the Arizona law is most likely to come into play after a traffic stop. A police officer pulls a minivan over for speeding. A dozen passengers are crammed in. None has identification. The highway is a known alien-smuggling corridor. The driver is acting evasively. Those factors combine to create reasonable suspicion that the occupants are not in the country legally."
pro_2_2	Arizona law requires unlawful act and reasonable suspicion for arrests	 Arizona law requires unlawful act and "reasonable suspicion" for arrests 
con_2_1	Cops will trump up charges in order to find illegals	 Cops will trump up charges in order to find illegals Shikha Dalmia. "Arizona's Law: Anti-Immigrant And Anti-Constitutional." Forbes. April 5th, 2010: "The amended law limits such inquiries to instances when cops make a lawful stop, detention or arrest in the course of enforcing some other law or local ordinance. But including local ordinances as grounds for an immigration inquiry opens all kinds of tantalizing harassment possibilities for officials like Joe Arpaio--the notorious but popular Arizona sheriff who has made it his personal mission to root out undocumented aliens from the state by launching crime sweeps in Latino communities on the flimsiest of pretexts. [...] Under the new law, Arpaio could troll Hispanic neighborhoods demanding the papers of anyone breaking, say, a local pooper-scooper law while walking their dogs."
headline_3	Carrying papers: Is it just to force illegals to carry papers?
pro_3_1	Arizona merely enforces law that aliens carry papers	 Arizona merely enforces law that aliens carry papers Stan Sudero. "Arizona's law has national support." The Reporter. May 2nd, 2010: "As far as the so-called "show me your papers law," federal law has long dictated that every alien, 18 years of age and over, shall at all times carry with him and have in his personal possession proof of alien registration. Failure to comply can result in a misdemeanor conviction, $100 fine and/or 30 days imprisonment for each violation."
pro_3_2	Being forced to show papers in Arizona is no big deal	 Being forced to show papers in Arizona is no big deal Mike Rosen. "Arizona is just taking a stand." Denver Post. May 6th, 2010: "The downside is that some people — citizens, visitors, immigrants and foreign workers — legally in the state may be inconvenienced if asked to identify themselves or show their immigration documents. I've been asked to show my "papers" when traveling in foreign countries. Big deal."
pro_3_3	Nothing to worry about as long as you have papers.	Nothing to worry about as long as you have papers. Carrying papers is no more inconvenient than carrying a drivers license or any other form of ID. It is a tradeoff for a person coming to live in the country rather than in Mexico.
con_3_1	Arizona law burdens immigrants who must carry papers	 Arizona law burdens immigrants who must carry papers Alessandra Soler Meetze, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) of Arizona: “If this law were implemented, citizens would effectively have to carry ‘their papers’ at all times to avoid arrest. It is a low point in modern America when a state law requires police to demand documents from people on the street.”[3] 
headline_4	Racial profiling: Does the law avoid racial profiling?
pro_4_1	Arizona law does not allow for racial profiling	 Arizona law does not allow for racial profiling Kris Kobach. "Why Arizona Drew a Line." New York Times. April 28th, 2010: "The law will allow police to engage in racial profiling. Actually, Section 2 provides that a law enforcement official “may not solely consider race, color or national origin” in making any stops or determining immigration status. In addition, all normal Fourth Amendment protections against profiling will continue to apply. In fact, the Arizona law actually reduces the likelihood of race-based harassment by compelling police officers to contact the federal government as soon as is practicable when they suspect a person is an illegal alien, as opposed to letting them make arrests on their own assessment." 
con_4_1	Reasonable suspicion in Arizona will lead to racial profiling	 "Reasonable suspicion" in Arizona will lead to racial profiling Raul A. Reyes. "Arizona's un-American immigration law." Los Angeles Times. April 28th, 2010: "When she signed this law, Gov. Jan Brewer stated that she would not tolerate racial profiling. Yet at a news conference, she was unable to answer the question 'What does an illegal immigrant look like?' If she doesn't know, how are police to know? Because Arizona's law offers no guidance as to what constitutes a 'reasonable suspicion' that someone is undocumented, police will likely resort to profiling of Latinos on an unprecedented level. Isn't Goldberg outraged by these apparent violations of the 4th Amendment's protection against unreasonable search and seizure? Or of the 14th Amendment's equal protection clause? Guess not."
con_4_2	Arizona immigration law invites abusive racial profiling	Arizona immigration law invites abusive racial profiling.
con_4_3	Arizona law will harass, jail Latinos w/o papers on them	 Arizona law will harass, jail Latinos w/o papers on them "Editorial: Arizona immigration law a throwback to a sadder era." The Scramento Bee. Apr. 28, 2010: "Arizona is a state of about 6.6 million people, with about 15 percent foreign-born, according to the U.S. census. Under the new law, those who can't immediately prove they're working in the United States legally may find themselves detained by police as they go about daily life." 
con_4_4	Blacks are profiled; Latinos in Arizona will be too	 Blacks are profiled; Latinos in Arizona will be too 
con_4_5	Arizona immigration law partly driven by racism	 Arizona immigration law partly driven by racism "Arizona law will invite racial profiling." Wiked Local. May 3, 2010: "It’s a scary piece of legislation that will invite racial profiling. What does an “illegal immigrant” look like? In Arizona’s case, it will be someone with brown skin. [...] The state that resisted a Martin Luther King holiday seems to relish discouraging people with darker shades of skin. [...] Arizona voters approved a King holiday in 1992, but only after a tourist boycott and loss of the 1993 Super Bowl, which was supposed to have been played in Tempe. This year’s action might cost the state baseball’s 2011 All-Star game." 
con_4_6	Arizona law allows suing of police, encourages racial profiling	 Arizona law allows suing of police, encourages racial profiling "Arizona's discriminatory immigration law is wrong." St Petersburg Times Editorial. April 27, 2010: "the provision allowing people to sue officials for not enforcing the law is red meat intended to hound police agencies to boost their arrest numbers."
headline_5	Feasibility: Is implementation feasible?
pro_5_1	Arizona does not deport illegals, it encourages self-deportation	 Arizona does not deport illegals, it encourages self-deportation James Edwards. "Arizona Gets it Right on Illegal Immigration." Human Events. April 27th, 2010: "The law, which GOP Gov. Jan Brewer signed April 23, uses state police authority to step up pressure on illegal aliens. This should help force many to leave the state—and the country—on their own or else face time behind bars. [...] This measure promotes attrition through enforcement, the most reasonable, rational strategy on the enforcement side of the immigration equation."
pro_5_2	Arizona law is reasonable, measured response to illegal immigration	 Arizona law is reasonable, measured response to illegal immigration Kris Kobach. "Why Arizona Drew a Line." New York Times. April 28th, 2010: "In sum, the Arizona law hardly creates a police state. It takes a measured, reasonable step to give Arizona police officers another tool when they come into contact with illegal aliens during their normal law enforcement duties."
con_5_1	Arizona law would strain federal govt with deportations	 Arizona law would strain federal govt with deportations Shikha Dalmia. "Arizona's Law: Anti-Immigrant And Anti-Constitutional." Forbes. May 5th, 2010: "if states unilaterally start arresting undocumented aliens and dispatching them to the federal government for deportation, they will force the federal government to expend law enforcement resources on immigration when it might have other, more pressing, concerns such as, say, terrorism."
con_5_2	Arizona immigration law will increase lawsuits and costs	 Arizona immigration law will increase lawsuits and costs Michael Gerson. "A test of Arizona's political character." Washington Post. April 28, 2010: "The government of Arizona, it turns out, has been ambushed by its own legislature. If this vague law is applied vigorously, the state will be regularly sued by citizens who are wrongfully stopped. But if the law is not applied vigorously enough, it contains a provision allowing citizens to sue any agency or official who 'limits or restricts the enforcement of federal immigration laws.' Either way, lawyers rejoice."
headline_6	Deterrence: Does Arizona's law deter illegal immigration?
pro_6_1	Arizona immigration law helps deter illegal immigrants	 Arizona immigration law helps deter illegal immigrants "Arizona immigration law is sound, needed." Watertown Daily Times. May 6th, 2010: "such proactive enforcement has a continuing deterrent effect, as violators realize they cannot indefinitely avoid law enforcement contact."
con_6_1	Arizona law encourages illegal immigration.	Arizona law encourages illegal immigration. Although conventional wisdom presumes that a prohibitory law will have the desired effect, careful studies of law often show the opposite effect: the behavior they are supposed to inhibit actually increases. Attempts to ban alcohol consumption, teen smoking, advertising, pornography, and fast driving are among the many instances of prohibitions that have backfired.
headline_7	Crime: Will Arizona's law help reduce crime in Arizona?
pro_7_1	The new immigration law will decrease crime rates in Arizona.	The new immigration law will decrease crime rates in Arizona. Illegal immigrants are often, although not always, involved in other crimes, particularly drug-trafficking. Cracking down on illegal immigrants will, therefore, have a positive effect in reducing crime rates in Arizona.
pro_7_2	Arizona law represents a much needed step away from anarchy.	Arizona law represents a much needed step away from anarchy. In general, the absence of the enforcement of immigration laws in Arizona creates a sense of anarchy in the state, and a certain feeling among criminals that they can commit crimes without concern for punishment.
con_7_1	Arizona law causes distrust of police, undermines enforcement	 Arizona law causes distrust of police, undermines enforcement Eugene Robinson. "Arizona's new immigration law is an act of vengeance." April 27, 2010: "One of the concrete problems with the law treating undocumented immigrants as criminals is that it gives those without papers a powerful incentive to stay as far away from police as possible. This will only make it more difficult for local police to investigate crimes and track down fugitive offenders, because no potential witness who is undocumented will come forward."
con_7_2	Arizona law puts police under contradicting missions	 Arizona law puts police under contradicting missions Joel Jacobsen, assistant attorney general, criminal appeals division for New Mexico: "This obviously puts police in an impossible situation because it requires them to pursue two goals simultaneously: to enforce the immigration laws; and to enforce the criminal laws, keep the peace, provide assistance, and all the other ordinary tasks of police officers. Which goal should they pursue? It will frequently not be possible to do both, because the officer will be required to arrest perpetrator and victim both, and the punishment experienced by the victim of a violent crime will frequently be more severe and life-disrupting – deportation – than that experienced by the perpetrator – a night in jail, perhaps."[4]
headline_8	State rights: Is Arizona's law consistent with federalism?
pro_8_1	Arizona has right to fight illegal immigration w/o federal authorization	 Arizona has right to fight illegal immigration w/o federal authorization Kris Kobach. "Why Arizona Drew a Line." New York Times. April 28th, 2010: "[Myth:] State governments aren’t allowed to get involved in immigration, which is a federal matter. [Counter-argument:] While it is true that Washington holds primary authority in immigration, the Supreme Court since 1976 has recognized that states may enact laws to discourage illegal immigration without being pre-empted by federal law. As long as Congress hasn’t expressly forbidden the state law in question, the statute doesn’t conflict with federal law and Congress has not displaced all state laws from the field, it is permitted. That’s why Arizona’s 2007 law making it illegal to knowingly employ unauthorized aliens was sustained by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit."
pro_8_2	States, local govts are best at fighting illegal immigration.	States, local govts are best at fighting illegal immigration. State and local governments are the closest to the problem, and the most capable of designing targeted approaches for their particular illegal immigration problem, which may very in type and severity from state to state.
pro_8_3	10th amendment supports state rights to craft immigration law.	10th amendment supports state rights to craft immigration law. The Tenth Amendment preserves the traditional police powers of the states to control their own jurisdictions. Many believe this amendment applies to the creation and enforcement of immigration law, in particular because it is a criminal issue.
pro_8_4	Arizona's immigration law is good test case for nation	 Arizona's immigration law is good test case for nation George F. Will. "A law Arizona can live with." Dallas News. April 28, 2010: "Arizona's law might give the nation information about whether judicious enforcement discourages illegality. If so, it is a worthwhile experiment in federalism." In other words, the feasibility and efficacy of a law such as Arizona's is not entirely known yet, and so Arizona provides an very valuable test case to determine these things."
con_8_1	Arizona should not make immigration law; fed should	 Arizona should not make immigration law; fed should "Stopping Arizona." New York Times Editorial. April 29th, 2010: "TAKE BACK IMMIGRATION POLICY The Supreme Court has consistently ruled that states cannot make their own immigration laws. The Arizona debacle gives the Obama administration another chance to make it clear that the nation’s immigration policy cannot be left to a ragged patchwork of state and local laws."
con_8_2	Protecting our borders is a purely federal function	 Protecting our borders is a purely federal function "Arizona Immigration Law is Constitutionally Trembling." The Barr Code. May 3rd, 2010: "Protecting our borders is in fact a singularly federal function; reflecting the fundamental responsibility of the national government to protect our sovereignty.  Traditionally, and appropriately, states have not been permitted to assume federal government functions; just as Washington should not be permitted to assert powers properly left to the states.  This split of enforcement authority – while in modern times often not honored by the federal government – is codified in the Constitution, including in the Tenth Amendment."
headline_9	Constitution: Is the Arizona immigration law constitutional?
pro_9_1	Government protection (from illegal immigrants) is a const. right.	Government protection (from illegal immigrants) is a const. right. Governments are required by their Constitutions to protect their citizens from crime and foreign threats. In so far as illegal immigration threatens citizens, governments are required to respond aggressively. Arizona, who's citizens have been terribly affected by illegal immigration, is required to respond robustly in fighting the problem. 
pro_9_2	Arizona law constitutional; no stops w/o other offense.	Arizona law constitutional; no stops w/o other offense. "The law is clearly within the boundaries of the Fourth Amendment of the Constitution. It doesn't allow officers to contact people on basis of race. They have to break another crime or violate another statute to even be contacted."
con_9_1	Arizona immigration law violates the Fourth Amendment.	Arizona immigration law violates the Fourth Amendment. Fourth Amendment of the United States Constitution: "The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized."[5]
headline_10	Economics: How will the Arizona illegal immigrant law impact the economy?
pro_10_1	Arizona law will return jobs back to the American people.	Arizona law will return jobs back to the American people. [6] "The wide array of statistics available from government and private sector sources leads to this conclusion: Unemployment disproportionately hits unskilled, uneducated blacks and native-born Hispanics. Why? It is simple, business economics: (1) In the unskilled labor market, legal workers offer no greater productivity than comparable illegal ones; (2) legal hiring requires employers to conform to U.S. law; and (3) citizen new hires often expect benefits. In short, more illegal workers cost employers less."
pro_10_2	Arizona law will lessen the financial burden caused by illegal aliens.	Arizona law will lessen the financial burden caused by illegal aliens.Arizona currently has at least 500,000 illegal aliens on the ground, costing the state $1.3 billion per year.
con_10_1	Arizona immigration law causes parents to send students elsewhere	 Arizona immigration law causes parents to send students elsewhere University of Arizona, Office of the President. "SB 1070 - Arizona's New Immigration Law." Huffington Post. April 20th, 2010: "We have already begun to feel an impact from SB1070. The families of a number of out-of-state students (to date all of them honors students) have told us that they are changing their plans and will be sending their children to universities in other states. This should sadden anyone who cares about attracting the best and brightest students to Arizona."
con_10_2	Arizona immigration law will damage local economy	 Arizona immigration law will damage local economy According to Judge Andrew Napolitano: "She's also gonna bankrupt her state, because no insurance company will provide coverage for this. And for all the lawsuits that will happen -- for all the people that are wrongfully stopped -- her budget will be paying for it. Her budget will be paying the legal bills of the lawyers who sue on behalf of those that were stopped."
headline_11	National Security: Do illegal immigrants in Arizona pose a threat to national security?
pro_11_1	Illegal immigrants in Arizona pose threat to security	 Illegal immigrants in Arizona pose threat to security Andrew Fair. "Arizona immigration law is sound, needed." Watertown Daily News. May 6th, 2010: "Obviously, some find it easier to cry out that Arizona's action is unfair and mean-spirited. Regrettably, most American citizens are not fully aware of the illegal immigration crisis this country is experiencing. Any notion of a mass amnesty is foolish and will only worsen the problem, encouraging more aliens to enter the United States illegally and further reward those who have already violated our laws. The solution begins with proactive enforcement of immigration laws at all levels of government. We must remember that the events of 9-11 occurred due to our failure to enforce existing immigration law."
con_11_1	Illegal immigrants do not pose a threat to national security.	Illegal immigrants do not pose a threat to national security. Largely the result of both push and pull factors, illegal immigrants come to the United States in search of jobs and opportunities, religious freedom, and political freedom, and to escape poverty, persecution, or political corruption/instability. These immigrants do not, by any means, pose a threat to national security. 
headline_12	History: Can any historical parallels be drawn?
pro_12_1	Arizona immigration law merely enforces existing laws	 Arizona immigration law merely enforces existing laws Rich Lowry of the National: “Arizona seeks only to enforce the nominal immigration policy of the United States.”[7]
pro_12_2	Aliens going out without documents has been a crime for decades	 Aliens going out without documents has been a crime for decades Rich Lowry. "Hysterics against Arizona." National Review Online. April 27th, 2010: "it's been a federal crime for more than half a century [for immigrants to go without documentation]. Has the open-borders crowd forgotten that it calls illegal aliens 'undocumented' for a reason?" 
con_12_1	The law draws parallels to the old Jim Crow Laws of the South.	The law draws parallels to the old Jim Crow Laws of the South. The Arizona law forces police to ask alleged illegal immigrants for their papers if "reasonable suspicion" exists. The law also calls for the arrest of people knowingly concealing illegal immigrants. Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus have denounced the law as "an unconstitutional throwback to the Jim Crow laws that mandated racial segregation in public."
con_12_2	Arizona immigration law undermines civil rights movement	 Arizona immigration law undermines civil rights movement Juan Carlos Ruiz, director of the Latino Foundation of Greater Washington: "Fifty years in fighting the civil rights efforts that we have put to ensure that all Americans, all people in this country, are free...We cannot go back to this slave patrol era."
headline_13	Public opinion: Where does public opinion stand?
pro_13_1	Most Americans support Arizona's immigration law	 Most Americans support Arizona's immigration law An April 2010 poll by Rasmussen, showed 55 percent of Americans supported the tough Arizona law, while 36 percent opposed it.[8]
pro_13_2	Roughly 70% of Arizonans support the state's immigration law.	Roughly 70% of Arizonans support the state's immigration law. This has been seen in a number of polls, and demonstrates a particularly high level of support for an aggressive approach in Arizona. 
con_13_1	Support for Arizona's law is understandable, but misguided	 Support for Arizona's law is understandable, but misguided "Arizona law will invite racial profiling." Wiked Local. May 3, 2010: "That 70 percent of Arizonans support the measure is no surprise. Arizona and other border states have borne the brunt of the immigration battle. The federal government has failed to enact reasonable immigration reform. Arizona was desperate to do something to stem the tide of people who were entering the state illegally. [...] The cost of an escalating population, whether here legally or not, puts a drain on limited resources. New residents need food, shelter, schools and health care. [...] That doesn’t excuse the actions of Arizona lawmakers. To fix one problem, they’ve created another and unfairly marginalized hundreds of thousands of citizens. [...] Immigration is a federal job, and sadly, it’s a job that has been neglected."
