title	Is Internet access a human right?
question	
headline_1	Importance: Is Internet access fundamental in modernity?
pro_1_1	Internet access is essential now; must be a right	 Internet access is essential now; must be a right Cory Doctorow. "Warning to all copyright enforcers: Three strikes and you're out." Guardian.co.uk. July 1, 2008: "I mean, it's not as though internet access is something important right? [...] The internet is only that wire that delivers freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, and freedom of the press in a single connection. [...] It's only vital to the livelihood, social lives, health, civic engagement, education and leisure of hundreds of millions of people (and growing every day)."
pro_1_2	Internet access is essential to other human rights	 Internet access is essential to other human rights United Nations' Universal Declaration of Human Rights includes the right to education and the right to work, which may hinge on Internet access.[1] And, indeed, The European Parliament has ruled that it sees internet access as 'critical for the practical exercise of a wide array of fundamental rights.'"[2]
pro_1_3	Internet access is necessary for right to self expression	 Internet access is necessary for right to self expression Marshall Kirkpatrick. "Is Internet Access a Fundamental Human Right? ReadWriteWeb. June 11, 2009: "Internet access in a time of democratized online publishing may be understood as a contemporary form of the right to self-expression."
pro_1_4	Making Internet a right only benefits society	 Making Internet a right only benefits society "The internet as a right." The Guardian. October 24th, 2008: "The internet is a right. [...] It’s in their enlightened self-interest. And I will suggest that the WEF Global Agenda Council should catalogue, quantify, and demonstrate that self-interest in terms of the benefit the internet brings a nation in: 1. business – jobs created, efficiencies found, innovation sparked, entrepreneurism supported; 2. education – every human able to search all our digital knowledge, distributed university curricula, the growth of the aggregated education, the pull toward literacy; 3. politics – the ability of citizens to coalesce and act, the increase in involvement in politics, the greater transparency enabled (which some politicians will not think is in their self-interest – but that is precisely why we will want this creed to separate democrats from dictators and the corrupt); 4. government – we have only begun to use connectivity to improve governance in its relationships with constituents and in efficiencies; 4. society – I argue in my book that staying connected may change the nature of relationships for the good – one-to-one and nation-to-nation."
pro_1_5	Statements in favor of a right to Internet access	 Statements in favor of a right to Internet access Jerry Lanier, the U.S. Ambassador to Uganda, told TechNewsDaily: "In the U.S., if we are serious about equality of opportunity, access to the Internet could be strongly defended as a human right."
con_1_1	If the internet is a right, then drugs should be a right	If the internet is a right, then drugs should be a right Sure, the internet is growing daily and became commonplace. However, just because something is a huge part in many people's lives, does it mean that those things should be regarded as rights? Cell phones for example. Should they become a right. If the internet is a right, then cell phones should be rights because they are more common. Other examples, like cars, or even drugs. Drugs and cars are a huge part of people lives. Just because they're widespread and is used extensively, doesn't mean that they should be rights.
con_1_2	Internet access is hugely important, but not a right	 Internet access is hugely important, but not a right Dana Blankenhorn. "The fundamental value of Internet access." ZDNet. May 8th, 2009: "Internet access [...] is fundamental to my childrens’ interactions with the world. It defines their economic utility, their ability to learn, even many of their social relationships. [...] Enabling that, or disabling that, is not a question of 'rights,' but it is fundamental."
con_1_3	Internet access is not really essential	 Internet access is not really essential It is much easier than people think to live without the Internet. People were able to lead happy succesful lives in the past without the Internet, and they are able to do so now as well. While there are certainly luxuries surrounding the use of the Internet, it is excessive to deem it as essential to human life and happiness. It is excessive there to deem it as a fundamental human right on these grounds.
con_1_4	Internet not as important as real rights	 Internet not as important as real rights Luke Appleby. "The internet is not a right." Stuff.co.nz. March 9th, 2010: "In 20 years, will people think having a cell-phone is a human right? An iPhone? A cooked breakfast and a footrub? [...] We may think of such trivial things as a fundamental right, but consider the truly impoverished and what is most important to them. The right to vote, the right to liberty and freedom from slavery or the right to elementary education. [...] Perhaps it's time for a reality check, and to re-examine which of our 'rights' are truly important."
con_1_5	No right to means of expression, like Internet	 No right to means of expression, like Internet Ed Morrissey. "The Internet, the BBC, and 'rights'" Hot Air. March 8th, 2010: "The right to speak springs from the innate sense of owning one’s self rather than being a property of the state, which means that each individual has the right to their own thoughts and to express them.  That right doesn’t extend to publication, however, which is where Toure’s argument runs off the rails.  If one wants to get published, then either one has to own the means to publication or pay someone else for the service.  After all, no one has the right to confiscate someone else’s printing press in order to get published."
con_1_6	Internet access is no right, but means of entertainment.	Internet access is no right, but means of entertainment. The Internet functions mostly as a means of entertainment, enabling individuals to acquire information and to engage in other activities. How many nights have you stood in front of the PC surfing the net wildly or playing a game? Also there is a lot of free pornografic material that any child who can type his name using a keyboard can access them. No form of entertainment should be made a "right."
con_1_7	Internet is arguably bad for humanity, not good	 Internet is arguably bad for humanity, not good Some take for granted the idea that the Internet is good for humanity. Many people argue that it has had many negative impacts. The following Wired magazine article makes this point: 
con_1_8	Internet right means denying parents' ability to set limits.	Internet "right" means denying parents' ability to set limits. Do you want to make a world when a mother tells her child: "you cannot stay on the internet anymore" that she has taken a right from him? Compare taking the right for a home or for education with taking the "right" to access the internet.
headline_2	Rights defined: Does Web right fit with traditional def of rights?
pro_2_1	Internet access is comparable to other modern rights	 Internet access is comparable to other modern rights Marshall Kirkpatrick. "Is Internet Access a Fundamental Human Right? ReadWriteWeb. June 11, 2009: "Here's a prediction: in five years, a UN convention will enshrine network access as a human right (preemptive strike against naysayers: 'Human rights' aren't only water, food and shelter, they include such 'nonessentials' as free speech, education, and privacy). In ten years, we won't understand how anyone thought it wasn't a human right."
con_2_1	Rights are things govts can't take, not things they must give	 Rights are things govts can't take, not things they must give Matt Asay. "Is Internet access a 'fundamental right'?" CNET. May 6th, 2009: "The Western world is big on rights these days, and seems to forget its responsibilities. Indeed, the interesting thing about the fundamental rights enshrined in the U.S. Constitution is that they mostly involve keeping government out of the lives of citizens, whereas these new government-granted rights do the opposite: they beg government to get deeply involved with citizens' lives through taxes and regulation."
con_2_2	Internet access is a responsibility not a right	 Internet access is a responsibility not a right Matt Asay. "Is Internet access a 'fundamental right'?" CNET. May 6th, 2009: "I'd therefore turn this discussion on its head, and suggest to Reding and the European Commission: we may choose to shoulder the responsibility for delivering Internet access to Europe and the rest of the world, but let's term it as a 'fundamental responsibility,' and not as a 'fundamental right.'"
con_2_3	Internet is a luxury, not a right	 Internet is a luxury, not a right Robert Lockard. "Internet access a human right?" Eharbor Commerce. October 21, 2009: "Apparently, it’s not an unalienable right to own a car or a house, but somehow it is an essential right for every person to be connected to the Internet. To me, that is faulty logic. We can all work hard to gain access to new tools, like cars, cell phones or the Internet, to make our lives easier, but there is no guarantee we’ll get those things without effort."
headline_3	Feasibility: Is providing Internet as a right feasible?
pro_3_1	Government subsidies can help achieve universal access.	Government subsidies can help achieve universal access. There is near-universal access to the Internet in many modern democracies. Ensuring that the rest of the population receives broadband connections, or at least the infrastructure that enables individuals to buy broadband anywhere, can be achieved through government subsidization. 
pro_3_2	Right to Internet may only mean right to avoid govt censorship.	Right to Internet may only mean right to avoid govt censorship. In the event that a right to the Internet is interpreted to mean a "negative right" that prevents governments from censoring online content or cutting individuals off from the Internet, then ensuring the right to the Internet is not resource intensive at all. In fact, constraining government in this way is likely to actually save the government and taxpayers money and resources. In general, it is clearly "feasible".  
con_3_1	Just another problem created	Just another problem createdIf the internet is a right, not only making it a right would be hard, providing internet access is downright impossible. For example, South Korea is the most internetly connected country in the world, but we only achieved this because of our country's size (which is big as Indiana). What about poor Africans, or people living in the jungles of the Amazon? What about Chinese people whose internet access is blocked by its government? North Korea, Iran, other countries where internet access is restricted? With today's unsolvable problems like drugs, there's no need to create another one.
con_3_2	Internet as right forces providing it to mountain cabins	 Internet as "right" forces providing it to mountain cabins Internet as a "right" impractically forces governments and Internet Service Providers to provide access to remote locations, such as an Island or a mountain top, where isolated individuals may live. This would be unreasonably expensive and force governments to draw resources away from other important programs that need just as much attention if not more as universal Internet access.
con_3_3	Other taxpayers must pay for right to Internet	 Other taxpayers must pay for right to Internet Matt Asay. "Is Internet access a 'fundamental right'?" CNET. May 6th, 2009: "After all, let's be honest: if the government assumes Internet access as a fundamental right, it ultimately is granting itself the fundamental right to tax its citizens to pay for it. I don't feel any burning desire to pay for your "right" to download silly YouTube videos, porn, or even to read this blog, which is what people would do 99.999 percent of the time with their Internet access. None of these is fundamental to freedom or to a happy, fulfilling life (except maybe that last one ;-)." 
con_3_4	Calling Internet a right is part of entitlement culture	 Calling Internet a right is part of entitlement culture Matt Asay. "Is Internet access a 'fundamental right'?" CNET. May 6th, 2009: "Wow. We live in such an entitlement culture that we expect to be handed everything, Internet access now included. Does that mean I'm guaranteed fast access, or will dial-up do?"
headline_4	Democracy: Is a right to Internet necessary in modern democracy?
pro_4_1	Internet access must be a right in an edemocracy	 Internet access must be a right in an edemocracy Sun's Simon Phipps: "if the stated direction of government is eGovernment then citizen access to the Internet is a right not a privilege."[3]
pro_4_2	Online public services necessitate Internet as a right	 Online public services necessitate Internet as a right Marshall Kirkpatrick. "Is Internet Access a Fundamental Human Right? ReadWriteWeb. June 11, 2009: "It could also be understood as part of basic access to public services in an increasingly online world." 
con_4_1	If Internet access is a right, so would be news	 If Internet access is a right, so would be news Matt Asay. "Is Internet access a 'fundamental right'?" CNET. May 6th, 2009: "Following this line of reasoning, shouldn't I have a right to cable TV, since that's where I watch C-SPAN and other government-related activity? If that's how the government chooses to communicate with me, the citizen, I darn well better get full access! [...] Or how about a right to get The Wall Street Journal? It provides useful commentary on my government's actions and how they affect my wallet. But then, I'd also need The New York Times so that I could develop a balanced view on important political matters. None of which will matter if the government doesn't force upon me the right to education! And not just any education, but an education that makes me fully capable of making intelligent voting decisions and filling out endless forms. See the problem?"
headline_5	Govt: Where do different govts stand on this question?
pro_5_1	Majority of people believe Internet is a human right	 Majority of people believe Internet is a human right "Internet access is 'a fundamental right'." BBC. March 8th, 2010: "Almost four in five people around the world believe that access to the internet is a fundamental right, a poll for the BBC World Service suggests. [...] The survey - of more than 27,000 adults across 26 countries - found strong support for net access on both sides of the digital divide." 
con_5_1	EU parliament ruled in 2009 against Internet as right.	EU parliament ruled in 2009 against Internet as right. European parliament ruled in May of 2009 against making access a "fundamental right".[4]
