title	Graduated response antipiracy laws
question	Are "graduated response" policies for unlawful P2P file sharing justified?
headline_1	Users: Is graduated response respectful to users?
pro_1_1	Graduated response is the least draconian option	 Graduated response is the least draconian option Barry Sookman and Dan Glover. "Graduated response and copyright: an idea that is right for the times." Lawyers Weekly. January 20th, 2010: "Graduated responses systems are not intended to be anti-consumer or heavy handed. To the contrary, user interests and their privacy and procedural rights are respected. Instead of being hauled into court for copyright infringements, users receive multiple notices before any action is taken by rights holders. These notices provide ample opportunities to change consumer behaviour from unauthorized file sharing to purchasing content legally. When proceedings are taken, there are procedural safeguards to ensure that sanctions are only imposed on the real offenders, and that they are proportionate."
pro_1_2	Graduated response helps avoid litigating against consumers.	Graduated response helps avoid litigating against consumers. The Recording Industry Association of America and the Motion Picture Association of America have sued illegal downloaders for billions of dollars over the years, claiming up to $150,000 in damages for a single illegal download. This is excessive and overly taxing on consumers. The most important element of graduated response is that it avoids these draconian lawsuits in favor of a warning system and then a far less costly sanctions system. 
pro_1_3	Graduated response helps maintain user privacy	 Graduated response helps maintain user privacy Nate Anderson. "IFPI: "Three strikes" efforts hit worldwide home run." ARS Technica. August 19, 2008: "For ISPs, the plan allows them to preserve user privacy (they don't generally turn any information over to the content owners), doesn't involve any filtering, and keeps the ISPs free from government mandates to police their networks."
pro_1_4	Graduated response protects creative arts for fans.	Graduated response protects creative arts for fans. Graduated response helps protect the creative music and video arts, enabling independent, small, medium, and even large artists, actors, and production studies to make more of the high quality products that fans love.
pro_1_5	Graduated response protects creative arts, lowers prices.	Graduated response protects creative arts, lowers prices. By protecting creative arts, graduated response will lower the transaction costs for the entertainment industry, making it possible for artists and production companies to charge less for albums and songs.
pro_1_6	Three strikes responds only to future illegal downloads.	Three strikes responds only to future illegal downloads. It is important that, given the culture of acceptability surrounding illegal filesharing (particularly among youth), that past bad behavior not be punished. Instead, three strikes and graduated response appropriately responds only to future instances of illegal downloads. 
pro_1_7	Graduated response educates fans about copyright/arts.	Graduated response educates fans about copyright/arts. It is important that movie watchers and music fans understand how these industries work, and how copyright laws are essential to their future. Graduated response can be viewed as an educational campaign, as much as a warning and punitive system, for establishing a new respect and cultural appreciation for how these industries and artists make money. Because so many young people don't understand these fundamentals, and take them for granted, such an educational push and cultural shift is very important.
pro_1_8	General statements supporting graduated response	 General statements supporting graduated response
con_1_1	Graduated response is a draconian policy	 Graduated response is a draconian policy Andrew Heaney, director of strategy and regulation at TalkTalk: "We have always said that oppressive and ultimately futile deterrents are not the solution to the music industry's woes."[4]
con_1_2	Graduated response relies on mere accusations w/o due process.	Graduated response relies on mere accusations w/o due process. Google lawyers concluded responding to a New Zealand draft of 'graduated response' principle: 'Mere allegations of copyright infringement should not trump users' rights. Copyright law is often complex and context sensitive, and only a court is qualified to adjudicate allegations of copyright infringement. Indeed, in Google’s experience, there are serious issues regarding the improper use and inaccuracy of copyright notices by rights holders."[5]
con_1_3	Weal appeals process in graduated response	 Weal appeals process in graduated response Nate Anderson. "RIAA graduated response plan: Q&A with Cary Sherman." ARS Technica. December 21, 2008: "What's the mechanism for 'appealing' a false allegation? How will subscribers be notified (i.e., what if your 'third notice' ends up caught in your spam folder, or your teenager intercepts the letters)? Will parents be held responsible for what their children are doing? Will neighbors be held responsible if they run open WiFi?"
con_1_4	Graduated response risks collecting too much data on users	 Graduated response risks collecting too much data on users Nate Anderson. "RIAA graduated response plan: Q&A with Cary Sherman." ARS Technica. December 21, 2008: "Does this mean ISPs now have an obligation to engage in enough data retention to reconstruct the activities of subscribers? If so, this will create a cache of data that will imperil our privacy in other ways, as the government and private litigants start demanding access to it." 
con_1_5	Graduated response does not achieve any greater justice	 Graduated response does not achieve any greater justice "Graduation response." Open Rights Group. June 30th, 2008: "If it is not the BPI’s intention to replace the current judicial process with a more administrative one that cuts corners, why replace the current judicial process at all? Any new system would surely be the subject of so many appeals that we’d soon arrive back to where we are now anyway (on the hopeful assumption that the interests of justice and fairness would be given due regard). Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights[14] (to which the UK is a party by virtue of the Human Rights Act 1998) requires that all citizens be given access to a fair trial in situations where the rights and freedoms of the individual are threatened with sanctions. If the government legislates in this area, there is a serious danger that justice, and access to justice, will be undermined." 
con_1_6	Graduated response could shut down public Internet hubs	 Graduated response could shut down public Internet hubs "'Three strikes' for the Web." Los Angeles Times Editorial. April 13, 2010 "One danger is that the duties and liabilities they impose could prompt those who provide Internet access in public spaces -- coffee shops, libraries, universities and the like -- to stop or limit their services to avoid any risk of even innocent infringement. That would be a step backward for Britain's efforts to promote ubiquitous broadband."
headline_2	Copyright law: Is copyright law worthy of this kind of protection?
pro_2_1	Copyrights on creative works must be enforced	 Copyrights on creative works must be enforced Barry Sookman. "The costs and benefits of graduated response in copyright enforcement." Barry Schookman Blog. February 1st, 2010: "Copyright infringement is a negative externality. It raises transaction costs and inhibits investment in the creative industries. Avatar would never have been able to attract a 500 million dollar investment if this 3D movie was as easy to freely copy (free-riding) as a standard 2D video."
pro_2_2	Graduated response is best compromise b/w stakeholders	 Graduated response is best compromise b/w stakeholders Barry Sookman and Dan Glover. "Graduated response and copyright: an idea that is right for the times." Lawyers Weekly. January 20th, 2010: "A graduated response system that is proportionate, respectful of privacy, limited to clear cases of infringement, and supervised by the courts or other tribunals, is likely to be a win-win proposition for all stakeholders in Canada as well. It would accomplish the dual goals of reducing online piracy and increasing legitimate sales through consumer education and the knowledge that a deterrent exists if illegal file sharing does not cease."
pro_2_3	Graduated response is better than not enforcing copyrights	 Graduated response is better than not enforcing copyrights Barry Sookman. "The costs and benefits of graduated response in copyright enforcement." Barry Schookman Blog. February 1st, 2010: "One must compare the cost of enforcing copyright using graduated response with the cost of not implementing such as system. When this analysis is done, graduated response to address copyright infringement can be fully justified from an economic perspective."
pro_2_4	Not enforcing copyrights incentivizes piracy innovations	 Not enforcing copyrights incentivizes piracy innovations Barry Sookman. "The costs and benefits of graduated response in copyright enforcement." Barry Schookman Blog. February 1st, 2010: "if copyright is poorly enforced at the end user level — with free-riding going unpunished — then incentives are given to innovators to help the consumer to free-ride. The longer this signal lasts, the higher the cost of copyright enforcement."
con_2_1	Graduated response unnecessary; antipiracy laws already exist	 Graduated response unnecessary; antipiracy laws already exist Intellectual Property Office of Singapore (IPOS) spokesperson Tan Mei Jue: "Illegal downloading and illegal file-sharing are violations of copyright law in Singapore, and there are remedies in our copyright law for copyright holders to take appropriate legal action against copyright infringers. 
con_2_2	Governments will use ISPs to catch more than pirates	 Governments will use ISPs to catch more than pirates Computer & Communications Industry Association President Ed Black said in a statement: "Once we turn our ISPs into law enforcement agents, governments with much worse human rights records are going to demand the ISPs use this same technology that catches copyright infringers to catch political dissidents."
headline_3	Efficacy: Can graduated response help lower piracy?
pro_3_1	Graduated response warnings deter further piracy	 Graduated response warnings deter further piracy Susan Butler, a veteran musioc-industry reporter who now manages the publication Music Confidential, reporting on a trial of how graduated response effects user behavior: "The trial revealed that the vast majority of subscribers stopped the activity after receiving notices, says Ciccone. With each subsequent notice, another 50% stopped the activity. Only a relative handful of subscribers continued the activity after receiving notices. These results support the conclusion that a notice program can have a very big impact on piracy. These results were consistent with studies in other countries, added Bloss-Baum."[7]
pro_3_2	Infringement will persist, but graduated response helps	 Infringement will persist, but graduated response helps Patrick Ross. "ISPs and Graduated Response." Copyright Alliance. March 31st, 2009: "There will always be infringers. In Seattle, I had lunch with some of the anti-DRM speakers. One boasted to me about how active he was in using torrent services to infringe; it was easy, he said, and argued that if technology allows it then it can’t really be wrong. But most of us can be persuaded to play by the rules when it no longer seems to be in our interest to break them. The effect of these letters show that."
pro_3_3	Graduated response is used in many countries	 Graduated response is used in many countries Nate Anderson. "IFPI: 'Three strikes' efforts hit worldwide home run."ARS Technica. August 19, 2008: "while most coverage of such ideas has focused on the French and English context, Perlmutter averred that the idea has actually gained significant worldwide traction. Governments seem to like throwing content owners and ISPs into a room and demanding that they work out some solution (often under threat that the government will simply legislate one otherwise), and graduated response appears to be least objectionable to both parties." 
pro_3_4	Colleges have used own graduated response systems	 Colleges have used own graduated response systems Barry Sookman and Dan Glover. "Graduated response and copyright: an idea that is right for the times." Lawyers Weekly. January 20th, 2010: "Colleges and universities have really been engaged in their own form of graduated response for many years. If you take a look at what universities have been doing, they have escalating sanctions for people who have been identified as repeat infringers. Something as simple as, for example, at Stanford, where they charge a $100 reconnection fee for somebody who fails to respond to a first notice. Then a second offense is $500 and a third [time] offender has network privileges terminated and to regain access, they have to pay a $1,000 fee. That's a very clear graduated response system. [...] Others will just give a warning the first time, and the second time they might do a temporary disconnect for 24 hours, and a third time they might refer you to the judicial affairs system. Every school has its own variation, but they've really been implementing informal graduated response."
con_3_1	Three strikes has hard time determining offending user	 Three strikes has hard time determining offending user "Graduated response." Open Rights Group: "whole families and shared households of internet users would be cut off from the internet as a result of one person’s unlawful activity. Which raises the question, who receives the sanction? The account holder? If so, what if it’s not the account holder carrying out the unlawful activity?"
con_3_2	Enforcing a mandated graduated response is unworkable	 Enforcing a mandated graduated response is unworkable "Graduated response." Open Rights Group: "the consequences of the government legislating to force the BPI’s proposals into effect would be both unwanted and unworkable. The result would be to replace the current judicial process with an administrative one: ISPs could surely not be expected to carry out reviews of such cases on their merits – they would neither be qualified to do so, nor would they have the resources to do so. It is hard to imagine anything other than a rubber-stamping process, by which users would be cut off at the drop of a hat."
con_3_3	Global use of graduated response has been mixed	 Global use of graduated response has been mixed "Estimating The Cost of a Three-Strikes and You're Out System." Michael Geist Blog. January 26, 2010: "the truth is implementation in many countries is a mixed bag.  Countries such as Germany and Spain have rejected it, acknowledging criticisms that loss of Internet access for up to a year for an entire household is a disproportionate punishment for unproven, non-commercial infringement. [...] Those countries that have ventured forward have faced formidable barriers.  New Zealand withdrew a three-strikes proposal in the face of public protests (a much watered-down version was floated at the end of last year), the UK's proposal has been hit with hundreds of proposed amendments at the House of Lords, and France's adventure with three-strikes has included initial defeat in the French National Assembly, a Constitutional Court ruling that the plan was unconstitutional, and delayed implementation due to privacy concerns from the country's data protection commissioner." 
headline_4	Enforcement: Can graduated response be effectively enforced?
pro_4_1	Mandate necessary to ensure all ISPs join three strikes	 Mandate necessary to ensure all ISPs join three strikes "Graduated response." Open Rights Group: "in order to be workable, a voluntary agreement that encompasses all of the BPI’s proposals as they currently stand, would have to involve all existing (and future) ISPs. In reality, this is simply not going to happen unless the government intervenes." 
pro_4_2	Graduated response does not require govt involvement	 Graduated response does not require govt involvement Nate Anderson. "IFPI: "Three strikes" efforts hit worldwide home run." ARS Technica. August 19, 2008: "Governments seem to like throwing content owners and ISPs into a room and demanding that they work out some solution (often under threat that the government will simply legislate one otherwise), and graduated response appears to be least objectionable to both parties." 
pro_4_3	Graduated response will make enforcement easier over time	 Graduated response will make enforcement easier over time Barry Sookman. "The costs and benefits of graduated response in copyright enforcement." Barry Schookman Blog. February 1st, 2010: "the cost of copyright enforcement will progressively decrease, thus raising the overall social benefits."
pro_4_4	Graduated response incentivizes copyright enforcement	 Graduated response incentivizes copyright enforcement Barry Sookman. "The costs and benefits of graduated response in copyright enforcement." Barry Schookman Blog. February 1st, 2010: "Graduated response restores incentives along the copyright distribution chain, (in the digital networks and equipment), to enforce copyright. Thus, it makes copyright enforcement costs decrease instead of increasing when free-riding is not deterred. The graduated response is a means to internalize in the technical chain the enforcement of the copyright."
con_4_1	Enforcing copyright law online is simply infeasible.	Enforcing copyright law online is simply infeasible. Copyright violations are numerous. Many don't even know that they're breaking the law. Even more don't care. Copyright violations is a huge problem, but trying to tackle is like trying to tackle the problem of drugs. It's impossible, and we let the problem balloon up even before we knew what the problem was. Monitoring everybody in the internet is one thing, trying to stop them from violating copyrights is another. Too expensive, too wasteful, too huge. The money and resources spent on tackling this problem by graduated antipiracy response laws would be better spent on creating more jobs, and fighting terrorists in the Middle East.
con_4_2	Enforcing graduated response will be very expensive	 Enforcing graduated response will be very expensive "Estimating The Cost of a Three-Strikes and You're Out System." Michael Geist Blog. January 26, 2010: "Initial [UK] government estimates peg the expense to Internet providers alone at as much as 500 million pounds (C$850 million) over ten years.  This includes the costs of identifying subscribers, notifying them of alleged infringements, running call centres to answer questions, and investing in new equipment to manage the system."
con_4_3	Govt in graduated response invites mission creep	 Govt in graduated response invites mission creep David Sohn. "Graduated response: Inviting FCC Mission Creep?" Center for Democracy and Technology. February 24, 2010: "What's wrong with that?  It's an invitation to major mission creep. "The FCC's job is to execute and enforce federal communications law.  It has no authority and no role in enforcing other laws.  Lots of unlawful activity -- from intellectual property infringement to racketeering to securities fraud to deceptive advertising -- may occur over or using communications networks.  But that doesn't make it the FCC's job to police such activity.  The FCC's focus is, and should remain, promoting the availability of high quality communications capabilities in the United States -- not policing what users do with those capabilities. [...] In addition, the only reason to involve the FCC would be to force the entities the FCC regulates -- communications providers, and in particular ISPs -- to start actively policing I.P. infringement.  Having government force ISPs to take on this new role should raise serious red flags." 
headline_5	Economics: Is graduated response economically valuable?
pro_5_1	Graduated response gives assurances needed for investment	 Graduated response gives assurances needed for investment Barry Sookman and Dan Glover. "Graduated response and copyright: an idea that is right for the times." Lawyers Weekly. January 20th, 2010: "While graduated response will never eradicate online infringement altogether, it would also give rights holders and ISPs the necessary protection they need to develop innovative business models such as the subscription plans created by European ISPs like Orange and BSkyB, and by mobile providers such as Nokia and Sony Ericsson. Bringing together graduated response with these access-based models would give users a safe, affordable and reliable means to get the creative content they desire while fostering innovation, creativity, competition and investment in intellectual property."
pro_5_2	Costs of unenforced copyright laws has grown	 Costs of unenforced copyright laws has grown Barry Sookman. "The costs and benefits of graduated response in copyright enforcement." Barry Schookman Blog. February 1st, 2010: "in the phase of the digital roll-out, the benefits of the digitization could temporarily outweigh the costs of not enforcing copyright. But now that digitization is ubiquitous, there is less benefit and much higher cost with not enforcing copyright. Worse, if copyright is poorly enforced at the end user level — with free-riding going unpunished — then incentives are given to innovators to help the consumer to free-ride. The longer this signal lasts, the higher the cost of copyright enforcement."
con_5_1	Graduated resonse would severely damage small ISPs	 Graduated resonse would severely damage small ISPs "Estimating The Cost of a Three-Strikes and You're Out System." Michael Geist Blog. January 26, 2010: "The disparate impact between big and small Internet providers highlights another hidden cost of three-strikes systems - the negative effect on the competitive landscape for Internet services.  The UK estimates that the costs on small Internet providers are so great that consideration should be given to exempting them entirely, since the additional burden would result in decreased competition.  The same report identifies the disproportionate harm to wireless carriers, who would face massive capital costs and be placed at a competitive disadvantage."
con_5_2	Unfair to force ISPs to respond to piracy.	Unfair to force ISPs to respond to piracy. ISPs are not responsible for pirates and they are not the music industry, which suffers from piracy. They should not, therefore, be forced to punish pirates through graduated response.
