title	US offshore oil drilling
question	Is offshore drilling a good idea? Was Obama right to open new drilling in 2010?
headline_1	Energy crunch: Can offshore drilling help avert an energy crisis?
pro_1_1	US offshore oil is significant, can have big market impact	 US offshore oil is significant, can have big market impact "Our view on energy dependence: Yes, drill offshore for oil, and do many other things, too." USA Today. April 2, 2010: "Critics note that the potential supplies offshore are a tiny part of the world market, but even so the Interior Department's estimates range from 39 billion to 62 billion barrels of oil. We use 7 billion barrels a year, so if the oil is really there, it could be five to nine years worth. True, robust production wouldn't kick in for a decade or more. But that same argument helped block action 10 years ago. Domestic gas supplies, meanwhile, are massive and underutilized."
pro_1_2	US offshore drilling will improve confidence, futures, and prices	 US offshore drilling will improve confidence, futures, and prices Martin Sieff. "Analysis: Offshore drilling realities". July 18, 2008 - "The very fact that offshore drilling has been approved may have some further positive effect on lowering world oil prices." Mark Hemingway concludes that President Bush's announcement that he would life the executive moratorium on oil was the direct cause of a dramatic drop in oil prices from $147 to $132 a barrel in mid July, 2008.[1] Based on this conclusion, if congress were to lift their moratorium, oil prices could be expected to drop even further.
pro_1_3	US oil crisis warrants drastic action and offshore oil drilling	 US oil crisis warrants drastic action and offshore oil drilling "An Outdated Ban". Washington Post. 28 June 2006 - "The United Statesis suffering a major energy crisis right now, and we should be drilling in as many places as we can manage. Offshore drilling may be a short-term solution to a long-term energy problem, but if countries like China can already drill and drain our nearby coastal regions of oil and gas deposits, there's no reason why we shouldn't save ourselves a few bucks at the gas pump until alternative energy sources are further developed."
pro_1_4	Offshore oil helps mitigate spikes in oil prices	 Offshore oil helps mitigate spikes in oil prices Chris Kahn. "Offshore drilling could soften oil price spikes, not energy costs." The Associated Press. March 1, 2010: "Opening more of America's coastlines to oil and natural gas drilling won't cut energy prices anytime soon. And it won't greatly reduce the country's dependence on foreign oil. [...] But it could [...] soften the blow of future price spikes."
pro_1_5	A comprehensive US energy plan must include offshore drilling	 A comprehensive US energy plan must include offshore drilling "An Outdated Ban". Washington Post. 28 June 2006 - "The United Statesis suffering a major energy crisis right now, and we should be drilling in as many places as we can manage. Offshore drilling may be a short-term solution to a long-term energy problem, but if countries like China can already drill and drain our nearby coastal regions of oil and gas deposits, there's no reason why we shouldn't save ourselves a few bucks at the gas pump until alternative energy sources are further developed." 
pro_1_6	Offshore oil addresses energy shortages better than most renewables	 Offshore oil addresses energy shortages better than most renewables Renewable energy is not yet an adequate alternative to oil. While the transition is made to renewable energy in the long-run, other offshore oil and gas alternatives should be found in the short-to-medium run. 
con_1_1	US offshore drilling would hardly lower global oil prices	 US offshore drilling would hardly lower global oil prices Joseph Romm. "New offshore drilling does little for gas prices." Forbes. April 2, 2010: "The Obama administration announced Wednesday that it will be approving 'significant oil and gas exploration off America’s coasts.' [...] Last year, the U.S. Energy Information Administration report, 'Impact of Limitations on Access to Oil and Natural Gas Resources in the Federal Outer Continental Shelf' analyzed the difference between full offshore drilling (Reference Case) and restriction to offshore drilling (OCS limited case). In 2020, there is no impact on gasoline prices (right hand column). In 2030, US gasoline prices would be three cents a gallon lower. Woohoo!"
con_1_2	Offshore drilling will not affect OPEC's price-setting	 Offshore drilling will not affect OPEC's price-setting Robert Kaufmann, director of the Center for Energy and Environmental Studies at Boston University said, "There's nothing on the supply side that we can really do to disrupt OPEC's ability to influence prices."[2]
con_1_3	Offshore drilling would not help US break its addiction to oil	 Offshore drilling would not help US break its addiction to oil "Expanded offshore drilling is no answer to our energy crisis". Citizen Times. 16 July 2008 - "Bush wants to try to drill our way out of the energy mess he and others tied to the oil industry helped create. The only real hope of energy independence for the United States is to aggressively develop alternatives."
con_1_4	Greater conservation is more important than offshore oil drilling	 Greater conservation is more important than offshore oil drilling Lisa Wangsness. "New offshore drilling not a quick fix, analysts say". Boston.com. 20 June 2008 - "Environmentalists argue that the pollution caused by drilling could compromise fragile ecosystems for very little economic benefit when the United States should be focusing on conservation - the cheapest barrel of oil, they like to say, is the one we don't have to buy - and developing better renewable energy sources."
con_1_5	Offshore drilling ban is not responsible for rising gas prices	 Offshore drilling ban is not responsible for rising gas prices "Expanded offshore drilling is no answer to our energy crisis". Citizen Times. 16 July 2008 - "It’s beyond disingenuous to imply, as the president did, that the prohibition on offshore drilling is responsible for the present run-up in gas prices or that allowing offshore drilling would do anything to bring prices down. In 2005 when the Republican-controlled Congress agreed to give more than $14 billion in tax subsidies and increased the number of drilling permits in the U.S., gas was $2.29. Today the national average is about $4.10."
con_1_6	General statements against offshore oil drilling	 General statements against offshore oil drilling Mike Daulton, Audubon's policy director, said in March of 2010: "We urge the Obama administration to focus on clean energy priorities and to protect America’s special places from the risks of oil drilling.[3]
headline_2	Timing: Would new offshore drilling come soon enough?
pro_2_1	Offshore oil still valuable, even if years away	 Offshore oil still valuable, even if years away While it may be true that - in a perfect world - it would be better for offshore oil to be available now, it is not true that it would be of no value down the line five, ten, or twenty years from now. In the future, energy needs will have grown, and the supply of traditional sources will have dwindled. In the event that alternative sources have not fully matured to fill the gap, offshore oil will indeed be very important in smoothing the transition to alternative, renewable energy sources. 
con_2_1	New offshore oil will take years to come on-line	 New offshore oil will take years to come on-line Lisa Wangsness. "New offshore drilling not a quick fix, analysts say". Boston.com. 20 June 2008 - "increased American production from offshore drilling would not necessarily mean lower prices for American consumers because oil is a global commodity whose price is set by global supply and demand."
headline_3	Environment: Is offshore drilling consistent with environmental preservation?
pro_3_1	Offshore drilling has a very strong environmental record	 Offshore drilling has a very strong environmental record "Our view on energy dependence." USA Today Editorial. April 2, 2010: "Some of the most ironic objections come from those who say offshore exploration will destroy beaches and coastlines, citing the devastating 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill in Alaska as an example. The last serious spill from a drilling accident in U.S. waters was in 1969, off Santa Barbara, Calif. But tankers like the Valdez continue to carry the imported oil we're ruinously addicted to and have gone aground more frequently, more recently and far more disastrously."
pro_3_2	The environmental footprint of offshore drilling is negligible	 The environmental footprint of offshore drilling is negligible James Hackett, president & CEO of Anadarko Petroleum, on energy issues, said in an interview with Larry Kudlow, "[We’ve] got a world class project that is the deepest producing well in the history of the world. It’s providing clean, natural gas to America, about 1.5 percent of all of our gas supply. Everyday it’s being provided from a football field and a half sized environmental footprint, a two-hour flight away from the shoreline. So it’s not in any visual contact with any human being. These platforms have gone through 200-year hurricanes, back in 2005, without any environmental consequences. It’s a bit of a fiction hoisted on us by people who don’t know better."[4]
pro_3_3	New technology makes offshore drilling safer than ever	 New technology makes offshore drilling safer than ever Deroy Murdock. "Offshore oil drilling -- cleaner than Mother Nature." Seattle PI. July 24th, 2008: "Democrats and other environmental naysayers cite the 80,000 barrels that spilled six miles off of Santa Barbara, Calif., inundating beaches and aquatic life. This hydrocarbon Hindenburg haunts the memories of those who witnessed it. [...] But this genuine catastrophe occurred in January 1969 -- nearly 40 years ago. That era's drilling technology has gone the way of Flower Power and black-and-white TV. Innovation has boosted the safety and environmental reliability of offshore drilling."
pro_3_4	Environmentally-friendly nations allow offshore drilling	 Environmentally-friendly nations allow offshore drilling "An Outdated Ban". Washington Post. 28 June 2006 - "Canada and Norway, two countries that care about the environment, have allowed offshore drilling for years and do not regret it."
pro_3_5	Directional drilling allows a single well to tap massive reservoirs	 Directional drilling allows a single well to tap massive reservoirs Suzanne Sitherwood. "Let coastal states drill offshore if they want to". Journal-Constitution. 17 July 2008: "While some argue that we don't want to see exploration in these pristine areas, the fact is that with today's technology, we can sensitively explore through directional drilling about 30,000 acres of surface lands with a single well. Isn't that a bargain when you calculate the cost to Americans to continue to rely on energy overseas, especially the volatile Mideast?"
pro_3_6	Banning offshore drilling forces dangerous tanker transport	 Banning offshore drilling forces dangerous tanker transport "An Outdated Ban". Washington Post. 28 June 2006: "it's even possible that the drilling ban increases the danger of oil spills in coastal waters: Less local drilling means more incoming traffic from oil tankers, which by some reckonings are riskier."
pro_3_7	If drilling is safe at current sites, why not expand it?	 If drilling is safe at current sites, why not expand it? Suzanne Sitherwood. "Let coastal states drill offshore if they want to". For the Journal-Constitution. 17 July 2008: "We are currently exploring in just one narrowly defined area in the Gulf of Mexico. This is where 90 percent of Georgia's natural gas comes from —- a commodity open to the unpredictability of the storms that occur. So why rule out exploring the rest of the Atlantic? Or all of the Pacific and the coast of Alaska?"
pro_3_8	Offshore drilling can be coupled with efficiency policies	 Offshore drilling can be coupled with efficiency policies Republicans have backed proposals that would allow for more drilling and more funding for renewable energy resources. "We say 'Yes, we can' to finding more. We say 'Yes, we can' to using less," said Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.).[5]
con_3_1	The three D's: oil rigs drill, drain and devastate.	The three D's: oil rigs drill, drain and devastate. Drills were made to do three things. Drill, drain, and devastate. Drills drill for oil, drill oil, while devastating the area around it. No matter how advanced technology is used, there will be accidents. Even after years of using electricity and making safety regulations and devices, there are still thousands of electrocution cases each year. This proves that even if advanced safety measures are taken, there will be accidents and tragedies. The drill is just like this. No matter how safe it is made to prevent accidents, it will have accidents. Also, the drilling, draining, and burning it causes is enough to devastate the ecosystem. Why try to deny the truth?
con_3_2	Offshore oil involves leaks, spills, environmental damage	 Offshore oil involves leaks, spills, environmental damage David Ivanovich and Kristen Hays. "Offshore drilling safer, but small spills routine." Houston Chronicle. July 28, 2008: "offshore operators continue to spill thousands of barrels of oil, fuel and chemicals into federal waters each year, government records show. 'This is not a zero-risk proposition,' said John Rogers Smith, an associate professor of petroleum engineering at Louisiana State University. [...] Offshore operators have had 40 spills greater than 1,000 barrels since 1964, including 13 in the last 10 years, according to data from the U.S. Minerals Management Service, which oversees exploration and production in federal waters. [...] Despite the industry's technological improvements and safety planning, offshore operators have struggled to cope with the hurricanes that blow through the Gulf of Mexico. Seven of the 13 recent larger spills were hurricane related."
con_3_3	New technology will never eliminate offshore oil leaks/spills	 New technology will never eliminate offshore oil leaks/spills Contrary to the claims of the oil companies new technology has not slowed the pace of major oil spills. Of the 40 offshore oil rig spills exceeding 42,000 gallons since 1964, 13 have occurred within the last 10 years. More than a quarter of all major spills of the last 44 years, have occurred recently. From 1998 through 2007, offshore producers released an average of 6,555 barrels of oil a year, according to the Minerals Management Service. That was 64 percent more than the annual average during the previous 10-year period and these figures do not include the latest spills in the Gulf of Mexico off Louisiana or Australia. This despite the new technology that has been implemented.  
con_3_4	Offshore drilling only adds more C02 to atmosphere	 Offshore drilling only adds more C02 to atmosphere "Why explore for oil?" The Economist. April 2nd, 2010: "The fundamental problem is this: there is a finite amount of fossil fuel. The more of it we find and burn, the more carbon we put into the atmosphere, and the more severe the greenhouse effect becomes. Once the carbon is in the atmosphere, it stays there. If we want to limit climate change, what we have to do, one way or another, is to leave fuels in the ground wherever possible, not find and burn them."
con_3_5	Offshore drilling fluids release toxic chemicals into oceans	 Offshore drilling fluids release toxic chemicals into oceans Lisa Wangsness. "New offshore drilling not a quick fix, analysts say". Boston.com. 20 June 2008 - "Drilling fluids contain toxic chemicals. If oil is found, one of the waste products is briny water that also contains toxic chemicals."
con_3_6	Noise from offshore drilling can harm sea animals	 Noise from offshore drilling can harm sea animals Lisa Wangsness. "New offshore drilling not a quick fix, analysts say". Boston.com. 20 June 2008 - "The noise from drilling could harm some sea animals, such as whales." 
con_3_7	Offshore drilling ban is an important environmental symbol	 Offshore drilling ban is an important environmental symbol Arnold Schwarzenegger said in June 2008, "We made a decision a while back to say no drilling off our shores in California, and we are serious about that and we're not going to change that, no matter who is recommending other things."[6]
con_3_8	Transporting offshore oil to shores by ship has environmental costs.	Transporting offshore oil to shores by ship has environmental costs. These large ships release significant pollution into the oceans, and carry some risk of hitting the shore, and causing a spill.
con_3_9	Transporting offshore oil by pipeline carries environmental risks.	Transporting offshore oil by pipeline carries environmental risks. Pipelines from oil rigs to the shore can leak and even burst, releasing very large quantities of oil into the Oceans and onto coastlines.
headline_4	Natural disasters: Can offshore oil withstand natural disasters like hurricanes?
pro_4_1	Offshore drilling rigs are resilient, withstanding even hurricanes	 Offshore drilling rigs are resilient, withstanding even hurricanes "An Outdated Ban". Washington Post. 28 June 2006: "Offshore oil rigs in the western Gulf of Mexico, one of the exceptions to the ban imposed by Congress, endured Hurricane Katrina without spills."
con_4_1	Offshore oil rigs are vulnerable to storms	 Offshore oil rigs are vulnerable to storms "Offshore Drilling is a Dirty Business." Sierra Club. Opposing Views.com: "Offshore drilling operations are particularly vulnerable to storms. The Coast Guard estimates that during Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, roughly 9 million gallons of oil were spilled. And the pipelines, development, and infrastructure that come with drilling scar beaches, disrupt marine life and undermine coastal tourism and fishing economies." 
headline_5	Production: Will offshore drilling significantly contribute to oil production?
pro_5_1	Offshore oil exploration could result in a major find	 Offshore oil exploration could result in a major find Mark Hemingway. "Drilling in the Offshore Unleashing the oil companies." National Review. 17 July 2008 - "due to restrictions on drilling, much of America’s coastline has never been fully explored, let alone with the latest technologies. Just a few months ago, an oil find was made off the coast of Brazil that might contain 33 billion barrels of oil. Now imagine what a similar find off the coast of America would do for oil prices."
pro_5_2	Offshore drilling is final frontier of oil	 Offshore drilling is final frontier of oil A USA Today article published on June 28, 2008, titled "Deepwater oil fields are a final frontier," notes, "By 2015, Chevron expects deepwater wells to account for one-quarter of offshore oil production vs. 9% today." The US must recognize this potential, and tap into it by lifting its ban on offshore drilling.[7] 
con_5_1	There is not enough US offshore oil to make a difference	 There is not enough US offshore oil to make a difference "Expanded offshore drilling is no answer to our energy crisis". Citizen Times. 16 July 2008: "Consider: According to the Washington Post, the U.S. Geological Survey estimates that there are “undiscovered conventionally recoverable resources” of 17.8 billion barrels in the offshore areas unavailable for drilling. In the oil business, “resources” refers to promising geological structures where the presence of oil remains uncertain. [...] No big supply there. [...] To put that in perspective, it would satisfy U.S. demand for somewhere in the neighborhood of two to two and one-half years at present consumption rates."
con_5_2	Oil companies should tap existing reserves before going offshore	 Oil companies should tap existing reserves before going offshore "Bush Lifts Ban On Offshore Drilling". CBS. 14 July 2008: "Democrats say they are for drilling, but argue that oil companies aren't going after the oil where they already have leases. So why open new, protected areas? they ask. Democrats say there are 68 million acres of federal land and waters where oil and gas companies hold leases, but aren't producing oil." 
headline_6	Economics: What are the economics of offshore oil drilling?
pro_6_1	Offshore drilling is very valuable to the US economy	 Offshore drilling is very valuable to the US economy "EDITORIAL: Obama surrenders gulf oil to Moscow." Washington Times. March 18th, 2010: "Offshore oil production makes economic sense. It creates jobs and helps fulfill America's vast energy needs. It contributes to the gross domestic product and does not increase the trade deficit. Higher oil supply helps keep a lid on rising prices, and greater American production gives the United States more influence over the global market."
con_6_1	US offshore drilling threatens vibrant fishing industry	 US offshore drilling threatens vibrant fishing industry Frances Beinecke is president of the Natural Resources Defense Council. "More Drilling, More Risk." New York Times: "Here’s how we utilize our oceans today: In the U.S. alone, commercial fishing generates more than $103 billion in sales. Ocean-related tourism and recreation are responsible for more than 2 million jobs. In 2000, the U.S. ocean economy created two and a half times the economic output of the farm sector. [...] This economic vitality depends upon clean, healthy seas. Despite technological advances, drilling off our coasts still poses grave risks, including accidental and hurricane-related oil spills. The Exxon Valdez spill stretched over 600 miles of Alaskan coastline — a stretch that would cover the eastern coastline from South Carolina to the tip of Florida. That’s a lot of beaches and fishing communities devastated."
con_6_2	Allowing offshore drilling is all about oil company profits	 Allowing offshore drilling is all about oil company profits Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., chairwoman of the Senate Environment Committee said in July 2008, "This proposal is something you'd expect from an oil company CEO, not the president of the United States. The president is taking special-interest government to a new level and threatening our thriving coastal economy."[8]
con_6_3	Offshore oil distracts from longer-term renewables industry.	Offshore oil distracts from longer-term renewables industry. A Center for American Progress study has found that money that goes into the oil sector instead of the clean energy economy means a net loss of 14 jobs per million dollars.[9]
headline_7	Foreign dependence: Would offshore drilling reduce US foreign dependencies?
pro_7_1	Offshore drilling helps US break dependence on foreign oil	 Offshore drilling helps US break dependence on foreign oil "An Outdated Ban". Washington Post. 28 June 2006 - "It's completely ridiculous that we are forgoing any sources of oil with gas prices as high as they are, especially when these sources would simultaneously decrease our own dependence on foreign oil."
pro_7_2	Wrong to out-source offshore drilling to foreign coasts	 Wrong to out-source offshore drilling to foreign coasts Peter Maass, a fellow at the Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, on New York Times Room for Debate, March 31st, 2010: "As a matter of global justice, why should America exclude its coastlines while coastlines all over the world are drilled for oil that goes into American gas tanks? Banning oil companies from operating in our waters while encouraging them to do so in other people’s waters — there’s a whiff of hypocrisy to that, a sort of outsourcing of oil pollution."[10]
con_7_1	Offshore drilling discourages investments in ending oil dependence.	Offshore drilling discourages investments in ending oil dependence. Barack Obama said, "And when I am President, I will keep the moratorium in place and prevent oil companies from drilling off Florida’s coasts. That’s how we can protect our coasts and still make the investments that will reduce our dependence on foreign oil and bring down gas prices for good."
headline_8	Aesthetics: Are drilling rigs aesthetically tolerable?
pro_8_1	Deepsea oil rigs are out of the view of coastal populations.	Deepsea oil rigs are out of the view of coastal populations. Not all offshore oil rigs are visible from coastlines. Many are too far to see, and so do not represent an eyesore for residents, tourists, beach-goers or anyone else.
pro_8_2	Some people appreciate the site of offshore oil rigs	 Some people appreciate the site of offshore oil rigs While some contend that oil rigs are ugly to look at from the coast, this is not necessarily the case for everyone. Many like the imaginative stimulation it provides, as it forces one to contemplate a rig drilling thousands of feet to a reservoir below and to contemplate the energy demands of modern society. This need not be a painful "eye-sore", and can often be quite pleasant.
con_8_1	Offshore drilling harms views and property values	 Offshore drilling harms views and property values Pat Bishop, a Republic property owner said in June of 2008, "I don't want any more of those ugly derricks out there."[11]
headline_9	Natural gas: Does offshore drilling improve natural gas production?
pro_9_1	US offshore natural gas drilling can significantly lower prices	 US offshore natural gas drilling can significantly lower prices "An Outdated Ban". Washington Post. 28 June 2006 - "natural gas is traded globally only in small quantities, in liquefied form; nearly all of the gas consumed in the United States is produced domestically or in Canada. So producing more natural gas in U.S. coastal waters would bring down U.S. natural gas prices rather than world prices. Because natural gas is much cleaner than its main alternative, coal, this would have environmental as well as economic benefits."
headline_10	State rights: Is it wrong to give states the right to decide?
pro_10_1	Coastal states have right to drill offshore	 Coastal states have right to drill offshore Suzanne Sitherwood. "Let coastal states drill offshore if they want to". For the Journal-Constitution. 17 July 2008 - "States ought to be able to determine for themselves whether or not to allow offshore drilling. As a coastal state, Georgia's voice can weigh heavily in the national debate over energy policy. While we do not know what resources are readily available off Georgia's coast, if any, we must join with other coastal states in advocating for increased access to offshore drilling. Each state should be free to drill or not drill. States that allow coastal energy production should also receive a fair share in the revenues generated from the offshore leases."
headline_11	Public opinion: Where does the public stand on this issue?
pro_11_1	The majority of Americans support offshore drilling.	The majority of Americans support offshore drilling. A Rasmussen poll found that 67% of voters nationwide support offshore drilling. In Florida, a poll released on June 30 showed that 59% of Floridians supported offshore drilling.[12]
pro_11_2	More and more favor offshore drilling during economic difficulty	 More and more favor offshore drilling during economic difficulty  C. Jeffrey Eshelman of the Independent Petroleum Assn. of America said, "We're seeing a large shift in public attitudes toward exploration."[13] 
pro_11_3	Offshore drilling is consistent with international norms	 Offshore drilling is consistent with international norms Suzanne Sitherwood. "Let coastal states drill offshore if they want to". For the Journal-Constitution. 17 July 2008 - "No other nation in the world has such fertile offshore resources yet rules them off limits."
