title	Google decision to stop censoring results in China
question	Was Google's decision to stop censoring results in China justified?
headline_1	Human rights: Was Google's decision to leave good for human rights?
pro_1_1	Google ceasing censorship in China was a win for human rights	 Google ceasing censorship in China was a win for human rights "China: Google Challenges Censorship. Other Companies Should Follow Suit." Human Rights Watch. January 12, 2010: "Google's unprecedented announcement today that it will not accept censorship of its search engine in China is an important step to protect human rights online."
pro_1_2	General support for Google stopping censoring in China	 General support for Google stopping censoring in China "Personal hooray, Google. Yahoo, Microsoft, and Facebook should support as well: free speech matters." - Jimmy Wales, co-founder of Wikipedia, via Twitter and on his Facebook page.[2]
pro_1_3	Google's departure from China sends message for free speech	 Google's departure from China sends message for free speech "Google and China." New York Times Editorial. March 23, 2010: "Google’s departure may have more resonance outside China than within. We don’t know how many of China’s many millions of Internet users will be able to read about this public indictment of China’s use of censorship. But that is preferable to helping maintain the fiction that the Internet in China is the same sort of vehicle for open communication that it is most everywhere else."
pro_1_4	China's response to Google's decision shows depths of censorship	 China's response to Google's decision shows depths of censorship "Google vs. China." The News Tribune. March 26th, 2010: "The issues behind Google’s decision to stop censoring its own search engine in China are perfectly encapsulated in the Chinese government’s response to it. Here are some of the instructions – as translated by the Washington Post – the government handed down to Chinese Web forum managers this week in reaction to Google’s move:  1. It is not permitted to hold discussions or investigations on the Google topic. 2. All Web sites please clean up text, images and sound and videos which attack the party, state, government agencies, Internet policies with the excuse of this event. 3. All Web sites please clean up text, images and sound and videos which support Google, dedicate flowers to Google, ask Google to stay, cheer for Google and others have a different tune from government policy. 4. [...] For all of China’s economic dynamism and modern trappings, it remains ruled by a dictatorship terrified of independent political thoughts and the means of communicating them."
con_1_1	Google out of China reduces access to free/fair info.	Google out of China reduces access to free/fair info. An important consequence of the Google search engine is that it is possible to look up information on an extremely diverse range of topics in a short amount of time.  By withdrawing from China, Google reduces the opportunity for individuals to find relevant information.  Consequently, individuals have less information to make important decisions regarding economic transactions, and form independent opinions on political, social, or human rights issues.
con_1_2	Censorship is common globally; China was in-bounds with Google	 Censorship is common globally; China was in-bounds with Google Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer said in January of 2010 that Google had made an "irrational business decision" because "the U.S. is the most extreme when it comes to free speech,” and because Google does business in many other countries with censorship laws (such as France, where Nazi denial is banned, and Australia where certain porn sites are banned).[3] 
con_1_3	China has a right to censor in its national interests	 China has a right to censor in its national interests Nicholas Deleon. "China has every right to be upset with Google right now." Crunch Gear. March 23, 2010: "What I don’t understand is, what gives Google the right to flout a country’s laws, no matter how “bad” they may seem? China doesn’t want its citizens to read up on Tienanmen Square—and? I really don’t think it’s the place outsiders to tell China how to run itself. You wouldn’t want Big China Corporation to build a factory in the middle of Texas, then demand that the state of Texas bend to its whims, would you?"
con_1_4	China is improving on free speech; Google should stay	 China is improving on free speech; Google should stay Shaun Rein. "Opposing view: Google's big mistake." USA Today. March 29th, 2010: "Contrary to the way Google founder Sergey Brin makes it sound, the Chinese Internet has in fact opened up since the Olympics. The government has become less scared of content, and sites such as The Huffington Post and the BBC have been unblocked. True, sites heavy with user-generated content, such as Facebook and Twitter, are now blocked, but home-grown versions have flowered because the government feels they will follow local laws." 
con_1_5	Google was not censored by China as harshly as others	 Google was not censored by China as harshly as others "Google's beef with China should be negotiated." Seattle Times Editorial. March 14, 2010: "Google's censorship has apparently been the lesser of several evils. Google has been blocking Internet searches in a way that makes the blocking visible, and probably annoying. Its censorship "is generally less onerous" than its competitors, says The New York Times, and educated Chinese are its principal customers."
headline_2	Chinese users: How will Google leaving affect Chinese users?
pro_2_1	Stopping Google censorship improves user experience long-term.	Stopping Google censorship improves user experience long-term. While it is true that the effect of Google stopping the censorship of its results may cause the site to be banned from China (which is not good for Chinese users in the short-term), the long-term objective is to increase access to information for Chinese users by pressuring the Chinese government to loosen its censorship laws. In so far as such freedom of information is improved by Google's decision, the decision will benefit Chinese Google users (or just Internet users in general) in the long-run. 
con_2_1	Google's decision to leave China harms Chinese users	 Google's decision to leave China harms Chinese users Loretta Chao. "Pullout Threat Jolts Chinese Users." Wall Street Journal. January 14, 2010: "Google's announcement sent shock waves through the country's fast-growing Internet industry and prompted an outpouring of concern from Chinese users, some of whom brought flowers to the U.S. firm's Chinese offices in a show of support. [...] Li Qin, a student at China Agricultural University, placed a single red rose on the Google logo outside the company's office. "I support what Google does in China," she said. "If they leave, I will be very disappointed. I wanted to express my support for them." "It's a tragedy if Google pulls out of China," said Xu Hao, a junior studying Japanese at Tongji University in Shanghai."
headline_3	Laws: Was Google wrong to violate Chinese laws?
pro_3_1	Google employees should not self-censor results in China	 Google employees should not self-censor results in China "China wants to control its people by restricting what they can read. If that's the way they want it, let them do it on their own." - Reader comment on CNN.com (March 12, 2010).[4]
pro_3_2	Google has higher responsibility to global norms than Chinese laws	 Google has higher responsibility to global norms than Chinese laws "What Lengths Will You Go For China’s Market? What are You Willing to Give Up?" All Roads Lead to China. March 26th, 2010: "What firms should be doing is playing by global standards that exceed China’s. Building factories that exceed today’s regulations, and ignore the fact that local rules may look past those who fail to meet those rules TODAY, having global labor standards that exceed local “Conventional wisdom” and regulations, and implement global codes of conduct on managers related to bribery. [...] That, in fact, while firms need to certainly abide by China’s rules, it is the firms who exceed those rules who will ultimately have the most sustainable business models, even if developing these models require an upfront higher cost and may limit the short term opportunity that would only be accessible to those who are willing to bend over their moral lines."
pro_3_3	Google has a right to disobey Chinese laws and leave.	Google has a right to disobey Chinese laws and leave. While China certainly has the right to eject Google from doing business in China because it is not willing to obey censorship laws, it is also true that Google has the right to make the decision to not obey China's censorship laws and accept the risk that the Chinese government might kick them out. This is the choice that Google has made, and there is nothing wrong with it making this ethical choice.  
pro_3_4	China must rationally justify or change its censorship laws.	China must rationally justify or change its censorship laws. Bad, immoral, undemocratic laws should be changed. It's not enough to justify China's laws by saying "these are China's laws, Google must obey them." China needs to either try to explain why censoring searches for terms such as "Tibet" or "Falun Gong" are justified, or it needs to change these laws.
con_3_1	To do business in China, Google must abide by censorship laws	 To do business in China, Google must abide by censorship laws Bill Gates of Microsoft told ABC News in March of 2010: "You’ve got to decide: Do you want to obey the laws of the countries you are in, or not? If not, you may not end up doing business there."[5]
con_3_2	Google violated the written promise it made to China	 Google violated the written promise it made to China "Google has violated its written promise it made when entering the Chinese market by stopping filtering its searching service and blaming China in insinuation for alleged hacker attacks." - an official with the State Council Information Office, a Cabinet office that oversees the internet.[7]
con_3_3	Google should not politicize its commerce in China	 Google should not politicize its commerce in China "This is totally wrong. We're uncompromisingly opposed to the politicisation of commercial issues, and express our discontent and indignation to Google for its unreasonable accusations and conducts." - an official with the State Council Information Office, a Cabinet office that oversees the internet, said in a statement carried by the official Xinhua News Agency.
con_3_4	Working in China does not means supporting all state policies	 Working in China does not means supporting all state policies "Google Makes Right China Decision." Internet Outsider. January 24th, 2006: "In this case--as with Yahoo, Microsoft, and others--agreeing to work with the Chinese government does not mean supporting all of its policies, and doesn't make Google 'evil.'  So hats off to Sergey and Larry for making a tough, mature, and pragmatic decision [to go into China in 2006]."
headline_4	Reform: Will Google's decision to leave help advance reform?
pro_4_1	Censorship of Google is bad for China's global image	 Censorship of Google is bad for China's global image Sen. Byron Dorgan, D-N.D: "China wants to participate in the marketplace of goods but keep the marketplace of ideas outside their country. Only when China respects human rights and allows the free flow of ideas ... only then will they be treated as a full member of the international community."[8]
pro_4_2	Google leaving China helps pressure regime	 Google leaving China helps pressure regime Arvind Ganesan, business and human rights director at Human Rights Watch: "But the Chinese government should also realize that its repression only isolates its internet users from the rest of the world - and the long-term harm of isolation far outweighs the short-term benefit of forcing companies to leave."[9]
pro_4_3	Reform-minded logic of censoring results in China is unsound	 Reform-minded logic of censoring results in China is unsound "Google's China problem." Los Angeles Times Editorial. January 14, 2010: "the rationale for providing a censored search engine has never been morally compelling." This quote was in reference to the "morale" of offering services to the Chinese people in hope that it would help them and help spur greater informational freedoms in the future.
con_4_1	Google in China improves free speech	 Google in China improves free speech "Google Makes Right China Decision." Internet Outsider. January 24th, 2006: "If the Internet continues to proliferate and the economy stays strong [with companies like Google in China], moreover, [free speech] will continue to improve."
con_4_2	By leaving, Google impairs Chinese scholars and reformers	 By leaving, Google impairs Chinese scholars and reformers Shaun Rein. "Opposing view: Google's big mistake." USA Today. March 29th, 2010: "Ballmer was right: Remaining in China helps Microsoft provide Chinese consumers with more product choice and gives him a seat at the table to help push for reform. Google's standing up so publicly and stridently is counterproductive — hurting those who want to reform China's approach to the Internet more than it helps them."
con_4_3	Reform must come from within China, not Google leaving	 Reform must come from within China, not Google leaving Shaun Rein. "Opposing view: Google's big mistake." USA Today. March 29th, 2010: "True reform in China has to develop from within. It cannot be seen as coming from the West. Like the failed economic sanctions against North Korea, Cuba and Burma (also known as Myanmar) that prop up unsavory governments, isolating China over Web censorship reinforces the power of hard-liners."
con_4_4	Google pressuring China on censorship emboldens hard-liners	 Google pressuring China on censorship emboldens hard-liners Shaun Rein. "Opposing view: Google's big mistake." USA Today. March 29th, 2010: "Like the failed economic sanctions against North Korea, Cuba and Burma (also known as Myanmar) that prop up unsavory governments, isolating China over Web censorship reinforces the power of hard-liners. [...] Google's ultimatum — to let it stop censoring searches or it will leave— has cut reform-minded officials' legs off at the knees, as well as strengthening the power of officials who take a dimmer view of allowing Chinese Internet users access to sites outside China." 
headline_5	Business: Is leaving China a good business decision?
pro_5_1	Google motto don't be evil forbids censoring results	 Google motto "don't be evil" forbids censoring results "Yes go! If Google's motto is don't do evil (or something like that), then it cannot support an oppressive regime. I hope that Google will stand its ground, and have the moral standing to say thanks but no thanks." - Reader comment on CNN.com (March 12, 2010).[10] In general, a company, for PR reasons, must uphold its motto. If it does not, then it will lose its fan base and significant business. 
pro_5_2	Google employees should not self-censor results in China	 Google employees should not self-censor results in China "Google and China." New York Times Editorial. March 23, 2010: "We have no illusions that the Chinese Communist Party will suddenly decide to allow its citizens unfettered access to the Internet through Google’s Hong Kong service, where it was redirecting China-based searchers. Beijing is already reportedly disabling searches and blocking search results on Google’s site. [...] But that is much better than self-censorship, which put Google in the troubling business of stripping out results from searches about politically touchy subjects like China’s occupation of Tibet and the massacre on Tiananmen Square by the Chinese Army." This is bad for Google, because it requires dedicating Google employees and resources to this onerous task.
con_5_1	Bad idea for Google to leave biggest search market	 Bad idea for Google to leave biggest search market Sumner Lemon. "Google's China decision ignores conventional wisdom." PC World. March 22, 2010: "Google’s decision to stop censoring search engine results in China flies in the face of common wisdom when it comes to doing business in the country. [...] China is supposed to be too important to ignore, the promise of a market with more than 1 billion people too lucrative to pass up. Common business wisdom holds that no company can afford to ignore, let alone walk away from, China." 
con_5_2	Google's decision damages business partnerships in China.	Google's decision damages business partnerships in China. For example, after Google's decision was made, China Unicom determined that it would stop using Google search on Android handsets. This and other decisions have alot to do with the need of these companies to remain in the good will of the Chinese government.[11]
con_5_3	Google's decision to leave China only benefits its rivals.	Google's decision to leave China only benefits its rivals. Microsoft Bing and Baidu will all continue to offer search functions in China with censored results. No message will be sent in China or globally. Rather, Google's rivals will simply gain, as Google loses.
headline_6	Ethics vs. business: Was the decision more about ethics or business?
pro_6_1	Google's decision in China was mostly ethics, not business	 Google's decision in China was mostly ethics, not business "Google vs. China." The News Tribune. March 26th, 2010: "Viewed every which way, Google’s decision looks genuinely principled. It stands to pay dearly for picking a public fight with China’s rulers. [...] The company has routed its search traffic from the Chinese mainland to its uncensored Hong Kong Web site, but the government could shut that address down overnight. [...] Even if it doesn’t, Google is already forfeiting partnerships with companies that were marketing smart phones loaded with its search features and Android operating system. Chinese mobile phone companies are already moving in on Google’s share of that market; Yahoo and Bing, Microsoft’s search engine, could grab much of Google’s search traffic if they don’t follow its admirable lead."
pro_6_2	Google should not bend ethics to be in China	 Google should not bend ethics to be in China "What Lengths Will You Go For China’s Market? What are You Willing to Give Up?" All roads lead to China. March 26th, 2010: "if according to “conventional wisdom” you have to be here, and that by some accounts of conventional wisdom” stipulating you need to bend various morals, values, and laws in order to do it…. is it worth it?  Or, should China be a market that, even when accepting the conventional wisdom on its opportunities for a product or service, is left alone because to operate with a sense of integrity is more important to the firm, its managers, its customers, its investors, society at large, or all the above…. and it is here where organizations can easily find themselves in a downward facing dog position."
con_6_1	Google left China only for business reasons	 Google left China only for business reasons Sarah Lacy. "Google’s China Stance: More about Business than Thwarting." Tech Crunch. Jan 12, 2010: "1. Google’s business was not doing well in China. Does anyone really think Google would be doing this if it had top market share in the country? For one thing, I’d guess that would open them up to shareholder lawsuits. Google is a for-profit, publicly-held company at the end of the day. When I met with Google’s former head of China Kai-fu Lee in Beijing last October, he noted that one reason he left Google was that it was clear the company was never going to substantially increase its market share or beat Baidu. Google has clearly decided doing business in China isn’t worth it, and are turning what would be a negative into a marketing positive for its business in the rest of the world."
con_6_2	Ethical for Google to offer censored alternative to Chinese Baidu	 Ethical for Google to offer censored alternative to Chinese Baidu "Defending Microsoft and Offering a Commentary on Google vs. China." Platen Blog.: "Microsoft is making the correct business decision by staying in China, offering an alternative, albeit censored, to Baidu."
con_6_3	Benefits of Google staying in China outweigh costs.	Benefits of Google staying in China outweigh costs. The main benefits are continuing to provide Chinese users with a great informational resource, continuing to expand access to information and free speech in China, maintaining a foothold in the huge Chinese Internet market, and making millions and potentially billions in revenue in the country. The costs may be having to censor a hand-full of search terms, employing Google workers to do this, and jeopardizing an element of Google's image. But, the benefits far outweigh these minimal costs.
headline_7	Hacking: Is Google's decision justified in context of email hacking?
pro_7_1	Chinese hacks into Google user accounts justifies leaving	 Chinese hacks into Google user accounts justifies leaving David Drummond, SVP, Corporate Development and Chief Legal Officer. "A new approach to China." Official Google Blog. January 12, 2010: "Like many other well-known organizations, we face cyber attacks of varying degrees on a regular basis. In mid-December, we detected a highly sophisticated and targeted attack on our corporate infrastructure originating from China that resulted in the theft of intellectual property from Google. However, it soon became clear that what at first appeared to be solely a security incident--albeit a significant one--was something quite different. [...] First, this attack was not just on Google. As part of our investigation we have discovered that at least twenty other large companies from a wide range of businesses--including the Internet, finance, technology, media and chemical sectors--have been similarly targeted. We are currently in the process of notifying those companies, and we are also working with the relevant U.S. authorities. [...] Second, we have evidence to suggest that a primary goal of the attackers was accessing the Gmail accounts of Chinese human rights activists." The inference at Google has been that the Chinese government is likely to have been involved. This is sufficient justification for considering leaving China.
con_7_1	Google colluded with the US government on emails	 Google colluded with the US government on emails "Editorial: Google and China." Arab News. January 15, 2010: "the reason given is that it has detected sophisticated cyber attacks on its e-mail service in what it says were unsuccessful attempts to access the e-mails of leading Chinese dissidents. This in itself is odd. It has to be presumed that intelligence services around the world, not least in the US, have been busy trying to penetrate e-mail accounts, including Google’s, as part of the fight against international terror. Google must have spotted this activity as well, but has never protested."
