title	Corporate free speech
question	Do corps. have a right to free speech and to spend w/o limit in elections?
headline_1	Free speech: Does unlimited spending uphold free speech?
pro_1_1	Free speech applies to corporate speakers as well	 Free speech applies to corporate speakers as well Supreme Court majority January 21, 2010 opinion on Citizens United vs Federal Election Commission: "Government may not suppress political speech based on the speaker’s corporate identity. No sufficient governmental interest justifies limits on the political speech of nonprofit or for-profit corporations."
pro_1_2	Ban on direct corporate funding is ban on free speech	 Ban on direct corporate funding is ban on free speech Supreme Court ruling on Citizens United vs Federal Election Commission: "441b’s prohibition on corporate independent expenditures is an outright ban on speech, backed by criminal sanctions.  It is a ban notwithstanding the fact that a PAC created by a corporation can still speak, for a PAC is a separate association from the corporation." 
pro_1_3	Wrong to fine/jail corporate citizens for speech	 Wrong to fine/jail corporate citizens for speech Justice Anthony M. Kennedy: "If the First Amendment has any force, it prohibits Congress from fining or jailing citizens, or associations of citizens, for simply engaging in political speech."[2]
pro_1_4	Limits on corporate spending chill free speech	 Limits on corporate spending chill free speech Supreme Court majority opinion on Citizens United vs Federal Election Commission: "because speech itself is of primary importance to the integrity of the election process, any speech arguably within the reach of rules created for regulating political speech is chilled."  
pro_1_5	First amendment protects companies AND non-profits, unions, etc	 First amendment protects companies AND non-profits, unions, etc Ilya Shapiro. "When Individuals Form Corporations, They Don’t Lose Their Rights." CATO Institute. Feb 2, 2010: "The First Amendment protects more than just the individual on a soapbox and the lonely pamphleteer."
pro_1_6	Limiting corp spending is slippery slope against free speech	 Limiting corp spending is slippery slope against free speech Chief Justice Roberts said that limitations on an anti-Clinton movie called "Hillary: the Movie." before the 2008 primary elections would lead to broader restrictions: "would allow censorship not only of television and radio broadcasts, but of pamphlets, posters, the Internet and virtually any other medium that corporations and unions might find useful in expressing their views on matters of public concern."[3]
pro_1_7	Spending limits foster equal not free speech	 Spending limits foster equal not free speech Cato Institute researchers John Samples and Ilya Shapiro wrote that restrictions on advertising were based on the idea "that corporations had so much money that their spending would create vast inequalities in speech that would undermine democracy." However, "to make campaign spending equal or nearly so, the government would have to force some people or groups to spend less than they wished. And equality of speech is inherently contrary to protecting speech from government restraint, which is ultimately the heart of American conceptions of free speech."[4]
pro_1_8	Limits on spending are limits on speech	 Limits on spending are limits on speech Citizens United vs. Federal Election Commission 5-4 Majority Opinion of the Court: "Section 441b’s prohibition on corporate independent expenditures is thus a ban on speech. As a 'restriction on the amount of money a person or group can spend onpolitical communication during a campaign,' that statute 'necessarily reduces the quantity of expression by restrict-ing the number of issues discussed, the depth of their exploration, and the size of the audience reached.'"
pro_1_9	Why limit speech of corporations, but not individuals?	 Why limit speech of corporations, but not individuals? Anthony Dick in The National Review wrote: "is there something uniquely harmful and/or unworthy of protection about political messages that come from corporations and unions, as opposed to, say, rich individuals, persuasive writers, or charismatic demagogues?" [5]
pro_1_10	Free speech more important than fighting corporate interests	 Free speech more important than fighting corporate interests Citizens United vs. Federal Election Commission 5-4 Majority Opinion of the Court: "The concurrence explained that any 'undue influence' generated by a speaker’s 'large expen-ditures' was outweighed 'by the loss for democratic proc-esses resulting from the restrictions upon free and fullpublic discussion.' Id., at 143. [...] In United States v. Automobile Workers, 352 U. S. 567 (1957), [...] The dissent concluded that deeming a particular group“too powerful” was not a 'justificatio[n] for withholdingFirst Amendment rights from any group—labor or corpo-rate.' Id., at 597."
pro_1_11	Govt has no authority to selectively offer free speech	 Govt has no authority to selectively offer free speech Floyd Abrams, a well-known progressive First Amendment lawyer, argued for lifting restrictions on corporate speech/spending in elections in Citizens United vs Federal Election Commission: "We should not make technical distinctions about the degree of First Amendment speech" rights, depending on the nature of the entity that engages in the speech –– we [would] then go down the road to start defining press entities which will get the protection [and] speech entities which will not get the protection, and I don’t think that’s a place we want to be."[6] 
pro_1_12	General statements in support of Citizens United	 General statements in support of Citizens United Citizens United, the group filing the lawsuit in the 2010 SCOTUS case: "Today's U.S. Supreme Court decision allowing Citizens United to air its documentary films and advertisements is a tremendous victory, not only for Citizens United but for every American who desires to participate in the political process."
con_1_1	Free speech does not apply equally to companies	 Free speech does not apply equally to companies "The Court's blow to democracy." New York Times Editorial. January 21, 2010: "The founders of this nation warned about the dangers of corporate influence. The Constitution they wrote mentions many things and assigns them rights and protections — the people, militias, the press, religions. But it does not mention corporations. [...] Most wrongheaded of all [in the Supreme Court's 2010 decision] is its insistence that corporations are just like people and entitled to the same First Amendment rights. It is an odd claim since companies are creations of the state that exist to make money. They are given special privileges, including different tax rates, to do just that. It was a fundamental misreading of the Constitution to say that these artificial legal constructs have the same right to spend money on politics as ordinary Americans have to speak out in support of a candidate."
con_1_2	Corporations do not have rights like individuals	 Corporations do not have rights like individuals Lisa Gilbert. "In The Public Interest: Corporate Democracy - The Citizens United Opinion." Huffington Post. January 21st, 2010: "A corporation is not, nor has it ever been, a person with voting rights. Corporations cannot get married, they cannot die, and a corporation is not a part of "We the People." The very idea that they can now channel their immense wealth to advocate directly for or against a federal candidate is abhorrent."
con_1_3	Corporate spending doesn't count as speech	 Corporate spending doesn't count as "speech" Free speech is protected under the Constitution, meaning anyone can say what they want. But, spending unlimited amounts of money to propagate a message, intimidate candidates, and sway elections is not protected. In other words, corporate speakers do have some free speech rights to develop an election ad (through such things as PACs), but not to then spend unlimited amounts of money to propagate their message.
con_1_4	Spending limits protect voter voices from being priced-out	 Spending limits protect voter voices from being priced-out Karen Finney. Democratic consultant and commentator; former spokesman for the Democratic National Committee, wrote in a January 24, 2010 Washington Post piece: "In a decision that supposedly ruled on the side of free speech, the court actually put a price tag on that speech. A price tag that could result in the voices of individual Americans being priced out of their ability to actually be heard, as millions of dollars from multinational corporations can now be spent to tip the scales in an American election."[7]
con_1_5	Unlimited corporate spending kills small-donor candidates	 Unlimited corporate spending kills small-donor candidates Greg Palest. "Manchurian Candidates: Supreme Court allows China and others unlimited spending in US elections." OpEdNews. January 23rd, 2010: "Candidate Barack Obama was one sharp speaker, but he would not have been heard, and certainly would not have won, without the astonishing outpouring of donations from two million Americans. It was an unprecedented uprising-by-PayPal, overwhelming the old fat-cat sources of funding. [...] Well, kiss that small-donor revolution goodbye. Under the Court's new rules, progressive list serves won't stand a chance against the resources of new 'citizens' such as CNOOC, the China National Offshore Oil Corporation."
con_1_6	General statements against Citizens United ruling	General statements against Citizens United ruling Representative Alan Grayson, a Democrat, stated that it was "the worst Supreme Court decision since the Dred Scott case" and accused the court of opening the door to political bribery and corruption.[8] 
con_1_7	Corps focus on profits, not eligible for rights	 Corps focus on profits, not eligible for rights Tom Stites. "How corporations became persons." UU World: "Democracy expresses the collective consciences of citizens. However noble or flawed its message, this is how our nation's moral voice is heard. [...] Corporations express the collective investment goals of shareholders. The legal stricture known as fiduciary responsibility confines all but closely held corporations to this singular goal. By shutting off other values to focus solely on pursuit of profit in inherently amoral economic competition, corporations are by their nature amoral as well. Despite image-enhancing claims of corporate citizenship, they have no consciences to express, only earnings per share. They differ from people not only in form and size but, most importantly, in their fundamental character: People including corporate executives, employees, and shareholders—have inherent worth and dignity; corporations in and of themselves do not." 
headline_2	Media: If media has free speech right, shouldn't corps as well?
pro_2_1	If media has right to speak, why not other corps?	 If media has right to speak, why not other corps? Citizens United vs. Federal Election Commission 5-4 Majority Opinion of the Court: "The media exemption discloses further difficulties with the law now under consideration. There is no precedent supporting laws that attempt to distinguish between corporations which are deemed to be exempt as media corporations and those which are not. “We have consis-tently rejected the proposition that the institutional press has any constitutional privilege beyond that of other speakers.” Id., at 691 (SCALIA, J., dissenting) 
con_2_1	Media has broader free speech rights than corporations	 Media has broader free speech rights than corporations Jim Sleeper. "Corporate free speech? Since when?" Boston Globe. September 5, 2009: "Yes, “robust speech’’ must be protected even if it’s obnoxious, but no corporation - unless it’s a news-media company, whose business is to facilitate free speech - can be the kind of speaker or citizen the First Amendment’s framers intended to protect."
headline_3	Associations: Does unlimited spending foster right to speech in assoc.?
pro_3_1	Corp. spending limits infringe free speech in assoc.	 Corp. spending limits infringe free speech in assoc. Justice Antonin Scalia stated that Justice John Paul Stevens dissent against the Citizens United ruling was "in splendid isolation from the text of the First Amendment. It never shows why 'the freedom of speech' that was the right of Englishmen did not include the freedom to speak in association with other individuals, including association in the corporate form."[9]
pro_3_2	Media speech implicates shareholders; no different with other companies	 Media speech implicates shareholders; no different with other companies Supreme Court majority January 21, 2010 opinion on Citizens United vs Federal Election Commission: "3) The Government’s asserted interest in protecting share-holders from being compelled to fund corporate speech, like the anti-distortion rationale, would allow the Government to ban political speech even of media corporations. The statute is underinclusive; it only protects a dissenting shareholder’s interests in certain media for 30 or 60 days before an election when such interests would be implicated in any media at any time."  
pro_3_3	PACs are insufficient enablers of organizational speech	 PACs are insufficient enablers of organizational speech 
con_3_1	Corporations are no form of free association/speech	 Corporations are no form of free association/speech The constitutional law scholar Laurence H. Tribe: "Talking about a business corporation as merely another way that individuals might choose to organize their association with one another to pursue their common expressive aims is worse than unrealistic; it obscures the very real injustice and distortion entailed in the phenomenon of some people using other people’s money to support candidates they have made no decision to support, or to oppose candidates they have made no decision to oppose."[10]
con_3_2	Corporate spending in elections violates shareholder rights	 Corporate spending in elections violates shareholder rights Trevor Potter, former Chairman with the Federal Election Commission and General Counsel of John McCain’s 2000 and 2008 Presidential campaigns, submitted a legal brief in favor of limiting corporate spending: He said: "Everybody has the ability to participate in the political process, meaning the election or defeat of candidates, except the for-profit corporations using shareholders’ treasury funds. That, it seems to me, is an appropriately narrow exemption given whose money that is, the shareholders’."[11]
headline_4	Democracy: What will the effect be on elections/democracy?
pro_4_1	Corporate free speech enhances the public debate	 Corporate free speech enhances the public debate Citizens United vs. Federal Election Commission 5-4 Majority Opinion of the Court: "Corporations and other associations, like individuals, contribute to the ‘discussion, debate, and the dissemination of information and ideas’ that the First Amendment seeks to foster” (quoting Bel-lotti, 435 U. S., at 783)). The Court has thus rejected theargument that political speech of corporations or other associations should be treated differently under the First Amendment simply because such associations are not “natural persons.” [...] it is our law and our tradition that more speech, not less, is the governing rule."
pro_4_2	Voters can be trusted to judge corporate speech/messages	 Voters can be trusted to judge corporate speech/messages Citizens United vs. Federal Election Commission 5-4 Majority Opinion of the Court: "When Government seeks to use its full power, includingthe criminal law, to command where a person may get hisor her information or what distrusted source he or she may not hear, it uses censorship to control thought. This is unlawful. The First Amendment confirms the freedom to think for ourselves."
pro_4_3	Corporations have valuable perspectives to voice	 Corporations have valuable perspectives to voice  Citizens United vs. Federal Election Commission 5-4 Majority Opinion of the Court: "Corporations, like individuals, do not have monolithic views. On certain topics corporations may possess valuable expertise, leaving them the best equipped to point out errors or fallacies in speech ofall sorts, including the speech of candidates and elected officials."
pro_4_4	Corporate free speech helps check government power	 Corporate free speech helps check government power "Corporate Free Speech." Republicans and Conservatives Archives. January 23, 2010: "It is understandable that there is opposition to this concept, particularly from those who have no conception of the corporate power of government. [Yet], I wholeheartedly support the Supreme court's decision lifting limits of corporate free speech. We have a great national corporation able to speak freely on behalf of its desire for power. It would be suicidal for us to limit our responses to such a concentration of expression to a cacophany on individual voices or to eschew an effective tool by which many individuals can focus their voices into harmonious opposition."
pro_4_5	Shareholders will limit corp spending on elections	 Shareholders will limit corp spending on elections Richard A. Epstein. "Free speech for corporations. Undoing the progressive mindset." Forbes. September 1, 2009: "In other cases, corporations are subject to shareholder control and to popular disapproval that can translate into reduced sales if they inject themselves into controversial matters that don't pertain to their business. Faced with these corporate realities and market constraints, why use the law to quiet their speech, which could add a distinctive perspective on many questions?"
pro_4_6	Corp election spending limited by transparency laws	 Corp election spending limited by transparency laws Kenneth Gross. Leads the political law practice at Skadden Arps; former associate general counsel of the Federal Election Commission. Wrote in a January 24, 2010 Washington Post piece[12]: "Also, many corporations have already signed on to transparency agreements regarding political spending. So, funding by publicly held corporations of groups trying to disguise their mission will be few and far between. This may not be the popular, prevailing view of the implications of the Citizens case -- but it is likely to be at least the short-term reality."[13]
pro_4_7	Opposing election spending from corporations cancel each other out	 Opposing election spending from corporations cancel each other out Richard A. Epstein. "Free speech for corporations. Undoing the progressive mindset." Forbes. September 1, 2009: "it would be wrong to assume, as did Justices Marshall, O'Connor and Stevens, that corporations speak with a single voice on key issues. Often they line up the opposite sides of questions, so that their expenditures often cancel each other out." 
pro_4_8	Citizens United decision does not allow spending on campaigns	 Citizens United decision does not allow spending on campaigns Jon Witold Baran. "Stamped Toward Democracy." Washington Post. January 25, 2010: "Will corporations and unions be able to give money to candidates or political parties? No. Federal law, which regulates campaigns for president, the Senate and the House, prohibits such contributions. The ban was left untouched by the Supreme Court. Can corporations spend money in cahoots with candidates and political parties? No. The Supreme Court decision addressed only 'independent expenditures,' which are, by definition, 'not coordinated with a candidate.' Monies spent in collaboration with candidates or parties are treated as contributions — and are still banned."  
pro_4_9	Tech makes limits on speech unrealistic	 Tech makes limits on speech unrealistic Supreme Court majority January 21, 2010 opinion on Citizens United vs Federal Election Commission: "3) The Government’s asserted interest in protecting share-holders from being compelled to fund corporate speech, like the anti-distortion rationale, would allow the Government to ban political speech even of media corporations. The statute is underinclusive; it only protects a dissenting shareholder’s interests in certain media for 30 or 60 days before an election when such interests would be implicated in any media at any time." 
con_4_1	Unlimited spending allows special interests to dominate elections	 Unlimited spending allows special interests to dominate elections President Barack Obama called the Supreme Court's Citizens Union decision in his 2010 January State of the Union address: "With its ruling today, the Supreme Court has given a green light to a new stampede of special interest money in our politics. It is a major victory for big oil, Wall Street banks, health insurance companies and the other powerful interests that marshal their power every day in Washington to drown out the voices of everyday Americans. This ruling gives the special interests and their lobbyists even more power in Washington--while undermining the influence of average Americans who make small contributions to support their preferred candidates. "[14] 
con_4_2	Corporate free speech protects govt of/by/for people	 Corporate free speech protects govt of/by/for people Karen Finney. Democratic consultant and commentator; former spokesman for the Democratic National Committee, wrote in a January 24, 2010 Washington Post piece: "At the very moment Americans' mistrust of big corporations, big government and large institutions has reached a fever pitch, the Supreme Court moved to replace a government of, for and by the people with a government that can be bought and paid for by just about any major corporation -- from Exxon to Russian-owned Lukoil to China's CPC Corp."[15]
con_4_3	Citizens United illogically increases money in elections	 Citizens United illogically increases money in elections Justice Stevens, with whom Justice Ginsburg, Justice Breyer, and Justice Sotomayor dissented from the majority ruling on Citizens United, arguing: "At bottom, the Court's opinion is thus a rejection of the common sense of the American people, who have recognized a need to prevent corporations from undermining self government since the founding, and who have fought against the distinctive corrupting potential of corporate electioneering since the days of Theodore Roosevelt. It is a strange time to repudiate that common sense. While American democracy is imperfect, few outside the majority of this Court would have thought its flaws included a dearth of corporate money in politics."[16]
con_4_4	Citizens United ruling pretends corporate spending doesn't corrupt	 Citizens United ruling pretends corporate spending doesn't corrupt The Christian Science Monitor wrote that the Court had declared, mockingly: "Roberts Court declares outright that corporate expenditures cannot corrupt elected officials, that influence over lawmakers is not corruption, and that appearance of influence will not undermine public faith in our democracy."[17]
con_4_5	Unlimited election spending will increases corruption	 Unlimited election spending will increases corruption Richard L. Hasen, Professor of Law at Loyola Law School, found that the ruling "increases the dangers of corruption in our political system and it ignores the strong tradition of American political equality".
con_4_6	Unlimited spending lets corporations intimidate unwanted laws	 Unlimited spending lets corporations intimidate unwanted laws Jody Grage, treasurer of the Green Party, stated "The decision [...] cancels the idea that candidates run for public office to serve the public interest. The ruling will help block government measures to curb global warming, regulation of financial firms, health care reform, consumer rights, and all other protections for 'We the People' against corporate power."[18]
con_4_7	Corporate spending used to fight election regulations	 Corporate spending used to fight election regulations Justice John Paul Stevens said in January of 2010 in a dissenting opinion following the Supreme Court's 5-4 vote to allow unlimited corporate spending in elections: "cripple the ability of ordinary citizens, Congress and the states to adopt even limited measures to protect against corporate domination of the electoral process."[19]
con_4_8	More spending in elections undermines public confidence	 More spending in elections undermines public confidence "A Bad Day for Democracy". The Christian Science Monitor. January 22, 2010: "this potential spending will create even greater fear of political reprisal for unpopular votes, expand conflicts of interest, and further undermine the public’s confidence in government’s ability to act in the public interest."
con_4_9	Unlimited corporate spending in elections threatens democracy	 Unlimited corporate spending in elections threatens democracy Justice Stevens, with whom Justice Ginsburg, Justice Breyer, and Justice Sotomayor joined in dissenting from the Citizen United ruling, arguing that the Court's ruling "threatens to undermine the integrity of elected institutions across the Nation. The path it has taken to reach its outcome will, I fear, do damage to this institution."[20]
headline_5	Candidate intimidation: Does allow for candidate intimidation?
pro_5_1	Unlimited spending lets candidates focus on message over fundraising.	Unlimited spending lets candidates focus on message over fundraising. One of the main problems in elections is that candidates are typically strapped for cash, and often must spend the majority of their time fundraising, instead of focusing on their message. Unlimited corporate spending, in addition to unlimited political party spending and individual donorship would allow candidates to focus on their message, the changes they want to make, their plans for governing or voting while in office, and on informing the general public about these plans so that they can make a more informed decision about their vote.
pro_5_2	Unlimited spending breaks stranglehold of incumbents	 Unlimited spending breaks stranglehold of incumbents Capital University Law School professor Bradley A. Smith, a former chair of the Federal Election Commission and a long-term campaign finance reform opponent, wrote that the major opponents of political free speech are "incumbent politicians, shocked by the apparent tectonic shift in politics of late" who "are keen to maintain a chokehold on such speech." Empowering "small and midsize corporations—and every incorporated mom-and-pop falafel joint, local firefighters’ union, and environmental group—to make its voice heard" frightens them because it breaks their damaging stranglehold on existing seats, which exist largely because they are able to raise more money than prospective up-start rivals. 
con_5_1	Unlimited spending allows corps to intimidate candidates	 Unlimited spending allows corps to intimidate candidates Senator Russell Feingold (D-Wis), co-author of the McCain-Feingold campaign finance legislation, said to the Washington Post in January of 2010: "Oil companies, with virtually no harm to their balance sheets, can now try to "take out" members of Congress who don't toe their company line on energy policy. Foreign-owned companies ¿ even those owned and controlled by other governments ¿ are free to underwrite the candidates of their choice."[21]
con_5_2	Unlimited corporate spending forces candidates to fundraise more	 Unlimited corporate spending forces candidates to fundraise more "A Bad Day for Democracy". The Christian Science Monitor. January 22, 2010: "The fear factor of unlimited corporate political spending this decision creates will now fuel a rapidly escalating fundraising arms race in Congress. With big firms now free to spend jaw-dropping sums to oppose or intimidate them, elected officials will feel compelled to spend more and more of their time raising money, thereby further distracting Congress from the pressing issues of the day."
con_5_3	Unlimited spending engenders corporate-sponsored candidates	 Unlimited spending engenders corporate-sponsored candidates Anna Burger. Secretary-treasurer of the Service Employees International Union, wrote in a January 24, 2010 piece: "There can be no doubt: The voice of everyday working Americans in the political process will be muted. How can they compete for airtime with the deep pockets of multinational corporations? The court's decision has said loud and clear that Mr. Smith has no business in Washington -- that seat's been sponsored by Wal-Mart."[22]
con_5_4	Corporate spending in elections increases attack ads	 Corporate spending in elections increases attack ads David Kirkpatrick. "Lobbyists Get Potent Weapon in Campaign Financing". New York Times. January 22, 2010: "It is expected to unleash a torrent of attack advertisements from outside groups aiming to sway voters, without any candidate having to take the criticism for dirty campaigning."
headline_6	Unions/advocacy: Does unlimited spending favor unions and advocacy groups too?
pro_6_1	Spending limits harm speech of advocacy groups & unions	 Spending limits harm speech of advocacy groups & unions Chicago Tribune editorial board member Steve Chapman wrote: "If corporate advocacy may be forbidden as it was under the law in question, it's not just Exxon Mobil and Citigroup that are rendered mute. Nonprofit corporations set up merely to advance goals shared by citizens, such as the American Civil Liberties Union and the National Rifle Association, also have to put a sock in it. So much for the First Amendment goal of fostering debate about public policy."[23]
con_6_1	Citizens United frees unions too, but corps are richer	 Citizens United frees unions too, but corps are richer While it is true that the Citizens United vs the Federal Election Commission does free non-profits and unions to spend freely, just as it does for corporations, the difference of course is that corporations (particularly the titans like big-oil companies Exxon Mobil and the big financial firms like Goldman Sachs) have far, far more money. Unions and advocacy groups are already maxing out on the spending front, so freeing them up won't result in much if any of an increase in their spending. Major corporations, however, will be able to increase their spending dramatically as a result of this ruling. It is not fair to say, therefore, that the ruling benefits both groups. It clearly favors corporations. 
headline_7	Radical change? Was Citizens United a modest or radical change?
pro_7_1	Corporations already influence elections through PACs	 Corporations already influence elections through PACs Greg Palest. "Manchurian Candidates: Supreme Court allows China and others unlimited spending in US elections." OpEdNews. January 23rd, 2010: "The ruling, which junks federal laws that now bar corporations from stuffing campaign coffers,will not, as progressives fear, cause an avalanche of corporate cash into politics. Sadly, that's already happened: we have been snowed under by tens of millions of dollars given through corporate PACs and "bundling" of individual contributions from corporate pay-rollers."
pro_7_2	Unlimited corporate spending exists in many states w/o problem	 Unlimited corporate spending exists in many states w/o problem Citizens United vs. Federal Election Commission 5-4 Majority Opinion of the Court: "26 States do not restrict independent expenditures by for-profit corporations. The Government does not claim that these expenditures have corrupted the political process in those States. [...] For the reasons explained above, we now conclude that inde-pendent expenditures, including those made by corpora-tions, do not give rise to corruption or the appearance of corruption."
con_7_1	Unlimited election spending is radical change	 Unlimited election spending is radical change Fred Wertheimer. "Turning clock back 100 years, decision will corrupt government." The Atlanta Journal. January 27, 2010: "The decision is the most radical and destructive campaign finance decision in Supreme Court history. In order to reach the decision, five justices abandoned long-standing judicial principles, judicial precedents and judicial restraint. [...] With a stroke of the pen, five justices wiped out a century of American history devoted to preventing corporate corruption of our democracy." 
con_7_2	Unlimited corporate spending is not constrained like with PACs	 Unlimited corporate spending is not constrained like with PACs Greg Palest. "Manchurian Candidates: Supreme Court allows China and others unlimited spending in US elections." OpEdNews. January 23rd, 2010: "Right now, corporations can give loads of loot through PACs. While this money stinks (Barack Obama took none of it), anyone can go through a PAC's federal disclosure filing and see the name of every individual who put money into it. And every contributor must be a citizen of the USA. [...] But under today's Supreme Court ruling that corporations can support candidates without limit, there is nothing that stops, say, a Delaware-incorporated handmaiden of the Burmese junta from picking a Congressman or two with a cache of loot masked by a corporate alias."
headline_8	Simplicity: Does corporate free speech simplify campaign finance law?
pro_8_1	Allowing corporate free speech simplifies election regulation	 Allowing corporate free speech simplifies election regulation Richard A. Epstein. "Free speech for corporations. Undoing the progressive mindset." Forbes. September 1, 2009: "The progressive mindset, therefore, does not counter any real abuse, but it paves the way for a set of election regulations of such mind-numbing complexity that former FEC commissions don't understand either, as Hans A. von Spakovsky's recent Wall Street Journal column reveals. Do we aspire to Byzantine rules that let the crafty find loopholes while stopping honest corporations from participating in public debate? Striking down the whole McCain-Feingold mess should clear the air and invite Congress to think about narrower regulations that might survive scrutiny if the Court takes this opportunity to return the First Amendment to its classical liberal roots."
con_8_1	Corporate free speech adds complexity to campaign finance	 Corporate free speech adds complexity to campaign finance "Corporate Free Speech." Law Offices of Joseph Markowitz. January 21, 2010: "Of one thing we can be certain.  This decision opens the door to a lot of new and interesting legal questions, such as whether Congress can devise new restrictions on campaign expenditures without amending the Constitution; whether Congress or the states can re-define what it means to be a corporation so as to limit corporations' ability to participate in electioneering; whether other remedies (e.g., derivative suits, defamation suits) can be pursued against corporations that spend excessively on campaign-related advertising.  If government is forced to exit the field, that may leave it up to private parties to fight these and other issues out in the legislatures, the courts and other places."
headline_9	Foreign control: Can unlimited spending avoid foreign influence?
pro_9_1	Status quo already allowed for foreign influence	 Status quo already allowed for foreign influence Citizens United vs. Federal Election Commission 5-4 Majority Opinion of the Court: "We need not reach the question whether the Govern-Cite as: 558 U. S. ____ (2010) 47 Opinion of the Court ment has a compelling interest in preventing foreign individuals or associations from influencing our Nation’spolitical process. Cf. 2 U. S. C. §441e (contribution and expenditure ban applied to “foreign national[s]”). Section 441b is not limited to corporations or associations that were created in foreign countries or funded predominatelyby foreign shareholders. Section 441b therefore would be overbroad even if we assumed, arguendo, that the Gov-ernment has a compelling interest in limiting foreigninfluence over our political process. See Broadrick, 413 U. S., at 615."
con_9_1	Unlimited spending lets foreign corps sway elections	 Unlimited spending lets foreign corps sway elections Justice John Paul Stevens said in January of 2010 in a dissenting opinion following the US Supreme Court's 5-4 vote to allow unlimited corporate spending in elections: "Under today's decision, multinational corporations controlled by foreign governments" would have the same rights as Americans to spend money to sway U.S. elections, he said.[24]
con_9_2	Unlimited spending lets for. govts sway elections	 Unlimited spending lets for. govts sway elections Greg Palest. "Manchurian Candidates: Supreme Court allows China and others unlimited spending in US elections." OpEdNews. January 23rd, 2010: "Only United States citizens may donate or influence campaigns, but a foreign government can, veiled behind a corporate treasury, dump money into ballot battles."
headline_10	Favor: Does unlimited corp spending not favor anybody?
pro_10_1	Unlimited spending fosters voices from all sides	 Unlimited spending fosters voices from all sides Mitch McConnell and Floyd Abrams. "No: Free speech, no matter the speaker, is what our Constitution protects." The Atlanta Journal. January 27, 2010: "Citizens United’s orientation is sharply to the right. On the left, BCRA required advertisements for Michael Moore’s anti-Bush documentary “Fahrenheit 9/11” to be pulled off the airwaves as the Republican Convention of 2004 approached. And as the national election approached that year, the ACLU was required to avoid mentioning President Bush in advertisements it was publishing denouncing the Patriot Act. [...] Given the court’s ruling, corporations and unions will now be free to participate in the political process to a greater degree than had previously been possible. The suppression of speech by both not-for-profit and for-profit corporations is over, and short of a constitutional amendment Congress may not reimpose the current speech ban or anything like it." 
pro_10_2	Corporate spending breaks media power in elections	 Corporate spending breaks media power in elections Cleta Mitchell. "Partner at Foley & Lardner who works in campaign finance law; filed a friend-of-the-court brief in support of Citizens United, on behalf of two advocacy organizations opposing the ban on corporate expenditures: "The Supreme Court has correctly eliminated a constitutionally flawed system that allowed media corporations (e.g., The Washington Post Co.) to freely disseminate their opinions about candidates using corporate treasury funds, while denying that constitutional privilege to Susie's Flower Shop Inc."[25]
pro_10_3	Unlimited spending frees up advocacy groups in elections	 Unlimited spending frees up advocacy groups in elections Cleta Mitchell. "Partner at Foley & Lardner who works in campaign finance law; filed a friend-of-the-court brief in support of Citizens United, on behalf of two advocacy organizations opposing the ban on corporate expenditures: "The real victims of the corporate expenditure ban have been nonprofit advocacy organizations across the political spectrum. After the 2004 election, the Sierra Club paid a $28,000 fine to the Federal Election Commission for distributing pamphlets in Florida contrasting the environmental records of the two presidential and U.S. Senate candidates. Because the Sierra Club is a corporation, the FEC charged it with making an illegal corporate expenditure."[26]
con_10_1	Unlimited corporate spending favors Republicans	 Unlimited corporate spending favors Republicans "The Court’s Blow to Democracy." New York Times. January 21, 2010: "The Citizens United ruling is likely to be viewed as a shameful bookend to Bush v. Gore. With one 5-to-4 decision, the court’s conservative majority stopped valid votes from being counted to ensure the election of a conservative president. Now a similar conservative majority has distorted the political system to ensure that Republican candidates will be at an enormous advantage in future elections."
con_10_2	Citizens United favors Dems as much as Republicans	 Citizens United favors Dems as much as Republicans David Kirkpatrick. "Lobbyists Get Potent Weapon in Campaign Financing". New York Times. January 22, 2010: "As Democrats vowed to push legislation to install new spending limits in time for the fall campaign, Republicans disputed the partisan impact of the decision. They argued that Democrats had proven effective at cultivating their own business allies — drug companies are spending millions of dollars to promote the administration’s health care proposals, for example — while friendly interest groups tap sympathetic billionaires and Hollywood money."
con_10_3	Unfair to free corporate spending, while limiting campaign fundraising	 Unfair to free corporate spending, while limiting campaign fundraising  Cleta Mitchell. "Partner at Foley & Lardner who works in campaign finance law; filed a friend-of-the-court brief in support of Citizens United, on behalf of two advocacy organizations opposing the ban on corporate expenditures, wrote in a January 24th, 2010 Washington Post article: "Campaigns, corporations and unions can all now spend as much as they want on campaign ads. But campaign finance laws dramatically limit how much candidates (though not corporations or unions) can raise and from whom. Generally, candidates may only accept contributions up to $2,400 per election from individuals and up to $5,000 per election from PACs. In contrast, Citizens United allows corporations and unions to spend unlimited sums attacking or supporting candidates. So picture this: An interest group makes a single phone call to raise $250,000 for attack ads in the waning days of a campaign. The candidate must find more than 100 willing donors, able to give the maximum permissible $2,400 contribution, to answer those ads with an equivalent buy. [...] One solution is for Congress to repeal the limits on how much and from whom candidates can raise money. However, those who see the court's opening of the doors to unlimited corporate spending as a problem are unlikely to see unlimited corporate contributions to candidates as the solution. Rather, Congress should repeal the limits on how much national political parties can spend in coordination with their candidates, which might restore some balance to the system."[27]
headline_11	Public opinion: Does the public support Citizens United?
pro_11_1	Public supports free speech of corporations and unions	 Public supports free speech of corporations and unions Anthony Dick in The National Review noted “a recent Gallup poll shows that a majority of the public actually agrees with the Court that corporations and unions should be treated just like individuals in terms of their political-expenditure rights."[28] According to Jordan Fabian, a Gallup poll taken in October 2009 and released soon after the decision showed 57 percent of those surveyed agreed that contributions to political candidates is a form of free speech and 55 percent agreed that the same rules should apply to individuals, corporations and unions. Sixty-four percent of Democrats and Republicans believed campaign donations are a form of free speech.[29]
