title	College football playoffs
question	Should there be a college football playoffs?
headline_1	National title: Does a playoff help determine a champion?
pro_1_1	Playoffs, not computers, should determine college football champs	 Playoffs, not computers, should determine college football champs Peter Brown, assistant director of the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute: "College football fans are not in love with the current system in which two teams that play for the national championship are picked by computers, sportswriters and coaches. Settle the question on the field, voters say more than two-to-one."[1]
con_1_1	A national champion through a playoff is not important	 A national champion through a playoff is not important Chuck Klosterman. "No college football playoff, please." ESPN. January 2, 2007: "I like college football as an entity more than I like knowing who is (supposedly) 'the best' amateur football team in the United States. People used to bemoan the thought of a mythical national champion, but it all seems mythical to me. It still does, and it always will. I don't need to pretend that I know the unknowable. If you want a playoff system, it might just mean you want to feel as though football has a clear sense of order. You probably enjoy feeling as though you know who is No. 1, because that's what really matters to you. But maybe you like college football as an experience a little less than you think."
headline_2	Fairness: Is a college football playoffs fair?
pro_2_1	BCS is unfair to smaller teams and conferences	 BCS is unfair to smaller teams and conferences Michael Shull. "BCS No More: College Football Needs Playoffs to eliminate the BS." College Sports Fans.: "I have chosen the 16-team format for one reason and one reason alone. FAIRNESS, something that has long been neglected by the NCAA for Division I-A Football Bowl Subdivision football. You see, the whole idea of the BCS basically limits any real chance at any kind of a fair chance for 45 of the 120 Division I-A college football programs in 2009. With 65 teams in BCS Conferences and over 90% of the BCS Bowl Game bids (and the $17 million payout for playing in those games, win or lose), the deck is stacked against the non-BCS teams in the WAC, Mountain West, MAC, Conference USA & Sun Belt. Add in the whole Notre Dame special name recognition and money clause and the deal is even more corrupt."
pro_2_2	The Bowl Championship Series is anti-competitive	 The Bowl Championship Series is anti-competitive George Will: "The BCS virtually guarantees that the rich get richer — and get the television exposure that attracts blue-chip recruits."[2]
pro_2_3	Regular season is no playoffs for the BCS	 Regular season is no "playoffs" for the BCS Daniel Deceuster. "The case for a college football playoffs." Bleacher Report. March 23, 2009: "don’t say the regular season is a playoff. I think Boise State and Utah might disagree with you. [...] Remember them? The ones who both had undefeated seasons yet didn’t get to play for the championship?"
pro_2_4	A 16-team college football playoff would be best	 A 16-team college football playoff would be best 
con_2_1	Playoffs would be unfair to some college football teams	 Playoffs would be unfair to some college football teams Michael Davis & Tim Kane. "Would a college football playoff be fair?" Real Clear Politics. November 12, 2009: "Any playoff system requires a cutoff that leaves a single team out. The wider the net, the more arbitrary that cutoff becomes (requiring ever more complicated tie-breaker rules)."
con_2_2	Football playoffs risks weaker teams getting lucky	 Football playoffs risks weaker teams getting lucky Michael Davis & Tim Kane. "Would a college football playoff be fair?" Real Clear Politics. November 12, 2009: "An 8-team playoff gives an arguably weaker team the chance to defeat a squad that was much better during the regular season. That may make for enjoyable entertainment, but it is definitely unfair in its way." 
con_2_3	More teams win and finish season happy in BCS	 More teams "win" and finish season happy in BCS Sam Herrell, a Texas high school coach, said to the New York Times in December of 2008: "You know, I coach high school football in Texas, and every year there’s only one team that ends up happy in your classification. You go the playoffs, the first round, the second round, the quarterfinals — oh how exciting for everyone. But you look at it, as soon as one of those teams gets beat, they’re just forgotten. Now I know people say how much it works for basketball, but I think football is different. Is it really better for the kids to have a playoff or for at least half of them to go to a bowl game and say, ‘We won the Gator Bowl, the Cotton Bowl, whatever bowl.'"[3]
con_2_4	General statements against college football playoffs	 General statements against college football playoffs
headline_3	4-team playoff: Is this the best way to determine a champ?
pro_3_1	4-team playoff is good way to determine champs	 4-team playoff is good way to determine champs Jim Walker. "Bowl money stopping playoffs in college football." The Ironton Tribune. January 12, 2010: "It could be possible to at least take the top four teams and play a mini-playoff. That would help solve the unfair match-up of Boise State and TCU. Instead of those two teams getting a chance at the BCS big boys, they were pitted against each other."
con_3_1	4-team college football playoffs open slippery slope to bigger playoffs	 4-team college football playoffs open slippery slope to bigger playoffs Playoff Smayoff, we don't need it." ESPN. April 30, 2008: "The idea of a 'Plus One' playoff was voted down by the conference commissioners (plus Notre Dame’s athletic director) in their Hollywood, Fla. meeting. [...] I’m OK with that, although I have never been totally against a 'Plus One' format. [...] Trouble is, once we get 'Plus One' format the college football brain trusts won’t stop until they’ve got 16, then 32, then 64." 
headline_4	Exposure: Would a playoff offer greater exposure?
pro_4_1	College football playoffs benefit more schools	 College football playoffs benefit more schools Matthew Sanderson. "The conservative case for college football reform." The Hill. January 6th, 2010: "College football’s considerable institutional benefits discussed above — improved funding, publicity, alumni networks, and admissions applications — are not awarded through merit- or market-based methods. They’re largely distributed on the basis of legacy entitlements and backroom deals. By reforming college football, government would not play Robin Hood and give disadvantaged parties a 'fair share' of the trophy or the revenues. Reform’s only aim is for schools to have a 'fair shake' at earning these benefits through competition. Conservatives should favor this modest effort to eliminate stacked decks and instill competition."
con_4_1	Bowls give small match-ups more exposure and drama	 Bowls give small match-ups more exposure and drama Chuck Klosterman. "No college football playoff, please." ESPN. January 2, 2007: "Occasionally, I will overhear some pseudo-acerbic small-time TV sports announcer rhetorically ask questions like, 'Who really cares about the San Diego County Credit Union Poinsettia Bowl?' My eternal answer is always, 'Me.' I love the way offensive coordinators unload the insanity within their playbooks, and I love seeing otherwise unheralded players from mid-major schools kill themselves during the only nationally televised game they will ever experience."
headline_5	Suspense: Would playoffs add to overall suspense/drama?
pro_5_1	Playoffs maintain importance of regular season	 Playoffs maintain importance of regular season "Wetzel's playoff plan." Yahoo Sports. December 7, 2009: "college football’s roller-coaster regular season needs to be protected. [...] That’s accomplished by two things. The first is playing on the home field of the higher-seeded team until the title game (more on this later). [...] The second is by giving the chance for an easier first-round opponent – in this case No. 1 seed Alabama would play No. 16 Troy. Earning a top two or three seed most years would present a school a de facto bye into the second round. [...] The season still matters this way. By winning the SEC championship game Saturday, Alabama gets Troy and enjoys home-field advantage in Tuscaloosa until the title game. By losing it, Florida gets Penn State and has to hit the road if it can beat the Nittany Lions."
con_5_1	Every game is important and exciting under BCS	 Every game is important and exciting under BCS Michael Davis & Tim Kane. "Would a college football playoff be fair?" Real Clear Politics. November 12, 2009: "The argument is that a playoff cheapens the regular season and all its games."
con_5_2	BCS builds suspense of the undefeated season	 BCS builds suspense of the undefeated season Chuck Klosterman. "No college football playoff, please." ESPN. January 2, 2007: "I love that Ohio State always needed to win this year [in order to keep the hopes of a BCS national title game alive]. Always. I can't think of any other major sport where that's a reality."
headline_6	Fans: Would a college football playoffs make fans happy?
pro_6_1	Most college football fans want a playoff	 Most college football fans want a playoff "Fans want football playoff." New York Times. December 29, 2009: "Most college football fans want a playoff system like the N.C.A.A. basketball tournament to replace the Bowl Championship Series, according to a recent nationwide Quinnipiac University poll. Fans are evenly divided over the Bowl Championship Series, the current method for determining the college football national champion: 43 percent have a favorable opinion of the B.C.S. and 45 percent have an unfavorable opinion. Nearly two-thirds of fans, 63 percent, said the B.C.S. should be replaced by playoffs similar to that used in college basketball."
pro_6_2	Fan turnout would be equally strong for college football playoffs	 Fan turnout would be equally strong for college football playoffs Harvey Starin. "There is nothing wrong with college football playoffs." Sun Sentinel. January 7, 2010: "Oeters suggests one of the "major problems" with a playoff system is that fans will only come to the game one day instead of several, as they do now for the Orange Bowl festivities. Huh? Would anyone really expect that rabid college fans would spend more time in South Florida at a meaningless Orange Bowl game than they would if the game actually had real national championship implications? Of course not. [...] A smart Orange Bowl Committee could still have all the pomp and pageantry that Oeters cherishes and offer fans a real reason to travel here in the winter, instead of a made-up, meaningless bowl game that means nothing except to the alumni of the playing teams."
pro_6_3	Fans equally willing to travel to playoffs as BCS	 Fans equally willing to travel to playoffs as BCS Harvey Starin. "There is nothing wrong with college football playoffs." Sun Sentinel. January 7, 2010: "Her second point, that South Florida will suffer a negative economic impact, is equally specious. As for fans' unwillingness to travel for playoff games, they travel now for meaningless bowl games, to be part of the pageantry and camaraderie they feel as boosters. [...] And after the first round, half the eight teams will be out anyway. So there are only two more games to attend before the legitimate championship. And I guarantee that rabid fans from contending teams will attend the two extra games. They do it now for college basketball, which has 60 extra games and doesn't even come during a time when people are off from work and their kids are home for the Christmas-to-New Year break."
con_6_1	College football fans can't afford playoff tickets/travel	 College football fans can't afford playoff tickets/travel Mark Purdy: "College football playoff sounds great but is a bad idea." Mercury News. January 8th, 2010: "I attended the Rose Bowl as a fan. My wife and I had a swell time. We also paid $300 for our two tickets, face value. [...] That's a lot of money. But we enjoyed the day. We tailgated with old friends from Ohio. We watched. Yet as I looked around the stadium at all the fans from Ohio State and Oregon, this thought crossed my mind: "What if this were a college playoff quarterfinal game? How many of these fans, if their team won, would then be willing to pay $150 or $200 or $275 more per seat the next week, plus hundreds more for travel to another neutral location — say, Miami, for the next playoff round against maybe Boise State? [...] My unofficial conclusion: There are a lot of crazy fans in Ohio, Oregon and Idaho. But not enough who are both that crazy and that rich. [...] In other words, for that next hypothetical playoff game — between Ohio State and Boise State — you would be relying largely on the fans of Miami and South Florida to buy tickets. Good luck with that."
con_6_2	Football playoffs would not make traveling fans happy	 Football playoffs would not make traveling fans happy Mark Purdy: "College football playoff sounds great but is a bad idea." Mercury News. January 8th, 2010: "I attended the Rose Bowl as a fan. [...] as I looked around the stadium at all the fans from Ohio State and Oregon, this thought crossed my mind: 'What if this were a college playoff quarterfinal game? How many of these fans, if their team won, would then be willing to pay $150 or $200 or $275 more per seat the next week, plus hundreds more for travel to another neutral location — say, Miami, for the next playoff round against maybe Boise State?' [...] In other words, for that next hypothetical playoff game — between Ohio State and Boise State — you would be relying largely on the fans of Miami and South Florida to buy tickets. Good luck with that. [...] That's why I claim that the most ardent Boise State fans are making out OK under the current setup. How frustrating would it be for them to face the difficult choice of either (A) maxing out on credit cards and going deep in debt to attend another game far away or (B) staying home and watching on television as their team tries to win a game in the blah atmosphere of a half-empty stadium?"
headline_7	Co-opting bowls: Could bowls be co-opted into playoffs?
pro_7_1	A playoff would still maintain and co-opt bowls	 A playoff would still maintain and co-opt bowls Michael Shull. "BCS No More: College Football Needs Playoffs to eliminate the BS." College Sports Fans.: "So what do we do with the bowls? I love bowl games as much as anyone, and I do not want them to go away nor do they need to be eliminated. A 16-game tournament means 15 games will be played, 15 games that can be hosted by the Top 7 bowls, matched up regionally as best as possible, with the four big-money (current) BCS bowl games, the Rose, Orange, Fiesta & Sugar hosting the College Football Final Eight through the National Championship. [...] The 16-team format eliminates the need for 8 traditional bowl games because those 16 teams are now in the playoffs. Thus, the current 34 bowl games will be reduced to 26 bowls. Some overlap will likely be needed with the 3 non-BCS bowls involved in the first round of our playoff format, but this could allow some cities to double-dip and actually get two bowl-caliber games (one bowl, one playoff game)."
con_7_1	Co-opting bowls into playoffs would be unsuccessful	 Co-opting bowls into playoffs would be unsuccessful Chuck Klosterman. "No college football playoff, please." ESPN. January 2, 2007: "I realize playoff proponents always say these games still could exist if the eight best teams were bracketed into a championship pool. But it wouldn't be the same. Somehow, these minor bowls would start to seem like the NIT tournament (which I never watch). If these games lack credibility as things currently stand, I can't imagine how they would feel to audiences if they essentially became exhibitions."
headline_8	Economics: Would a playoff be as economical?
pro_8_1	Playoff would generate more revenue than BCS	 Playoff would generate more revenue than BCS Daniel Deceuster. "The Case for a College Football Playoff." Bleacher Report. March 23, 2009: "Think if USC and OSU played in the Rose Bowl next season. Each team would get a big cut of the revenues generated and a lot of money would go to their conferences, the BCS, and the television network broadcasting the game. [...] Now think if USC and OSU are seeded 1-2 in the tournament and go all the way to the championship. Each team would have played three home games to get there. [...] Think of how much revenue goes straight to the school—much more than just the one Rose Bowl game that divides the revenue so many ways."
pro_8_2	Schools lose too much money to BCS businessmen	 Schools lose too much money to BCS businessmen "Wetzel's playoff plan." Yahoo Sports. December 7, 2009: "BCS bowl games are the single worst business arrangement in American sports. College football’s continued willingness to be fleeced by outside businessmen, who gleefully cut themselves in on millions in profits, makes even conference commissioners blush when confronted with the raw facts. [...] What other business outsources its most profitable and easily sold product – in this case postseason football? [...] The bowls were needed back in the 1950s. These days they are nothing but leeches on the system. [...] It’ll never make sense to allow businesses outside college football to determine how college football does its business."
pro_8_3	Schools would make more money by hosting playoff games	 Schools would make more money by hosting playoff games Dan Wetzel. "Wetzel’s playoff plan: Money talks." Yahoo News. December 7, 2009: "Hosting games would be a boon to the schools. Instead of sharing up to 40 percent of game revenue (and all travel costs) with third-party bowl committees – run by an executive director making up to $800,000 a year – college and universities could keep all money in-house."
con_8_1	BCS makes much more money than playoffs could	 BCS makes much more money than playoffs could Mark Purdy: "College football playoff sounds great but is a bad idea." Mercury News. January 8th, 2010: "The real deciders here, when it comes to the BCS's future, are the university presidents. They're the ones who have to balance the budgets at their schools. And they have noticed how the current system works well. [...] A whole bunch of dough comes their way, every year — including the money from the middle-echelon and lower-echelon bowls. Those presidents are very risk-averse. They think that a playoff system would damage the BCS bowls and kill those other bowls entirely."
con_8_2	Lower-tier college football playoffs are poorly attended	 Lower-tier college football playoffs are poorly attended Mark Purdy. "College football playoff sounds great but is a bad idea." Mercury News. January 8, 2010: "There are playoff tournaments in the lower levels of college football — including the second tier Championship Subdivision. Those games are played on home fields, instead of neutral sites. So maybe that would be the way to go at the top level of college football, too. [...] But have you noticed something about those lower-level playoff games? One, many are played in horrible December weather at the Northern sites. Two, the stands are hardly packed. [...] The new BCS executive director, Bill Hancock, was talking about that Thursday in a session with the media in Southern California. 'If you look at attendance for those games, only Montana had decent attendance,' said Hancock, a longtime NCAA executive. 'Many teams didn't draw as well as they did in the regular season.'"
headline_9	Tradition: Is breaking tradition with a playoff justified?
pro_9_1	College football can evolve to include a playoff	 College football can evolve to include a playoff Daniel Deceuster. "The case for a college football playoff." Bleacher Report. March 23, 2009: "Throughout its illustrious history, college football has evolved. Rules have changed, conferences have come and gone, NCAA divisions were implemented, polls and rankings came into play, and even the BCS was formed in 1998 to “fix” the Bowl Alliance. [...] College football is no stranger to change. Whenever it has been in the best interest of the sport, it has changed. [...] So why—when a playoff is so obviously in the best interest of the sport—has nothing changed?"
pro_9_2	Every sport has playoff, why not college football?	 Every sport has playoff, why not college football? Harvey Starin. "There is nothing wrong with college football playoffs." Sun Sentinel. January 7, 2010: "as many have said for years, every major college or professional sport has a playoff system to determine the national champion. Except college football, among the most watched and most avidly supported sport in the United States. Why not?"
con_9_1	Bowls are a tradition that should be continued.	Bowls are a tradition that should be continued. The college football bowls have been around for decades. While this system has evolved, with the Bowl Championship Series being created in 1999 to better organize the system, never has college football broken from this system to include a playoff. To add a playoff would be to break with the tradition of these bowls, which many fans have come to love and expect to occur every year. Families have enjoyed these traditions for years, and to break from them would do unfortunate harm to this important human sense of continuity. 
con_9_2	If BCS ain't broke, don't fix it	 If BCS ain't broke, don't fix it Notre Dame athletic director Kevin White said in December of 2009 about the BCS: "If it isn't broke, don't fix it."[4]
headline_10	Players: Is playoff in interests of player health/academics?
pro_10_1	Opponents of CF playoffs care about money, not academics	 Opponents of CF playoffs care about money, not academics Michael Shull. "BCS No More: College Football Needs Playoffs to eliminate the BS." College Sports Fans.: "So there you have it, a 16-team playoff format. Critics will begin with arguments like 'that’s too many games for these student athletes' or a focus on the academics and the hardships these college students would be under if they advance to the 16-team playoff and keep playing. My counter to that is that academics did not decide the 12th game that was recently added to everyone’s schedule in the Football Bowl Subdivision, and academics don’t seem to matter in breaking the Texas-Oklahoma-Texas Tech debate for the Big 12 South title and Big 12 Championship debate, so quit saying you care about anything other than money."
pro_10_2	Football players miss fewest classes; playoffs OK	 Football players miss fewest classes; playoffs OK Auburn coach Tommy Tuberville said in 2006: "[Opponents of a football playoff] keep coming up with lame excuses about academics. Football players miss fewer classes than anybody."[5]
con_10_1	Playoffs are hard on football players' bodies	 Playoffs are hard on football players' bodies In other sports, the toll of each game on the athlete's body is much smaller than it is in football. For that reason, a college football playoff presents risks to the players' health. This is particularly true when considering that a playoff might be pact into a relatively short period of time. The championship game, therefore, may be between two injury-ridden teams. This kind of a risky, unhealthy playoffs should not be forced on our student-athlete football players.
con_10_2	Football playoffs take players away from academics.	Football playoffs take players away from academics. A playoffs will take players away from their classes for longer than the existing bowl series. For the team that would make it to the championship of the BCS, they would miss a significant number of classes. This just makes it hard for them to complete their Winter semester or quarter.
