title	2010 US bank tax
question	Is the Obama administration's 2010 bank tax justified?
headline_1	Taxpayer money: Is tax justified to re-coup taxpayer bailouts?
pro_1_1	It is justified to repay the debt	It is justified to repay the debt The U.S government used taxpayer's money to bail out these rampaging banks. Although the banks are vital parts of the U.S economy, they nevertheless needs to repay their debt to the common people, for they owe their very existence as a result of the U.S government bailing them out. Since they borrowed money from the U.S government, it's justified for the U.S government to get that money back, and to give the money to the taxpayers as a show of gratitude.It's that simple.
pro_1_2	Bank tax recoups taxpayer bailout of banks	 Bank tax recoups taxpayer bailout of banks Jill Schlesinger. "Bank Tax, TARP Tax: Obama's "We Want Our Money Back Fees." Huffington Post. January 14, 2010: "The rationale behind the tax/fee is basically this: the banks took us to the edge of the abyss because of their excessive risk-taking. Only massive amounts of emergency taxpayer money saved the system from total collapse. Although many of the big banks have already repaid TARP and in doing so, the government made money on those specific investments, there will still be money lost in the plan. The fee attempts to recoup those losses over the next years."
pro_1_3	Bank tax recoups profits made on backs of taxpayers	 Bank tax recoups profits made on backs of taxpayers Simon Nixon. "Windfalls Show That Bonus Tax Makes Sense." Wall Street Journal. October 20, 2009: "A windfall tax is blunt, arbitrary and something supporters of free markets usually instinctively avoid. Even so, following news that Goldman Sachs Group has already set aside a $16.7 billion bonus pool for 2009, the case for windfall taxes on banks that pay giant bonuses is becoming unanswerable. [...] This year's bank profits are windfalls in the purest sense. They aren't the due rewards for exceptional skill but gifts from taxpayers. Many banks are earning huge, risk-free profits borrowing from central banks at ultralow interest rates and lending back to governments at much-higher rates. If this giant, hidden subsidy was being used to support new lending, fair enough. Instead, it looks destined for bankers' pockets." 
pro_1_4	Bank tax compensates for damage done by banks	 Bank tax compensates for damage done by banks Tracy Corrigan. "Obama's bank tax will only work if there's a master plan in place." Telegraph. January 14, 2010: "In the case of the UK, it now appears highly probable that the Government will eventually recover all the money it injected into individual banks. That is hardly the point. The cost of the banking crisis was much greater than these capital injections. Just look at the size of the national debt."
pro_1_5	Banks are unlikely to pass tax on to consumers	 Banks are unlikely to pass tax on to consumers The argument here is that the 50 largest banks are unlikely to want to raise prices in the faces of competition from smaller banks that are not subject to the tax. An additional argument along these lines is that banks are not going to want to make the politically unpalatable move of raising prices while paying out major bonuses to themselves.
pro_1_6	Bank tax will not crimp lending to taxpayers	 Bank tax will not crimp lending to taxpayers 
con_1_1	2010 bank tax is pure populism	 2010 bank tax is pure populism Republican National Committee Chairman Mel Martinez said on January 15, 2010: "The basis for [the bank tax] is populism. It’s very popular to whack the banks and talk about bonuses and get every dime paid back even though it’s already happening."[2]
con_1_2	Bailout benefited taxpayers; repayment unnecessary	 Bailout benefited taxpayers; repayment unnecessary Holman W. Jenkins. "Bashing Bankers Is a Political Duty." Wall Street Journal. January 13, 2010: "didn't taxpayers bail out the financial system, so don't taxpayers deserve the bonuses? No. Taxpayers (aka voters) were acting in their own interests in bailing out the system. They weren't doing anybody a favor."
con_1_3	Bailout was a mistake, so should not be repaid	 Bailout was a mistake, so should not be repaid Jeffrey Miron. "Bailing out the Banks Was Wrong, but New Tax Won't Make It Right." Investor's Business Daily. January 14, 2010: "The U.S. made a huge mistake in bailing out the financial industry. Bankruptcy would have been the right way to punish the financial sector for its excesses. High profits and large bonuses are perfectly fine — they are the reward for risk-taking — but only if those reaping the rewards in good times actually pay the piper in bad times."
con_1_4	Bank tax will be passed on to consumers	 Bank tax will be passed on to consumers Jeffrey Miron. "Bailing out the Banks Was Wrong, but New Tax Won't Make It Right." Investor's Business Daily. January 14, 2010: "The tax will not fall solely or even mainly on its desired political target, the shareholders and highly paid executives of large financial firms. The true burden of a tax often lands far from its intended target as the target attempts to shift the burden. [...] In this case, higher taxes mean higher costs and therefore higher prices, so customers (borrowers) will bear some of the burden of the tax." 
headline_2	Deficit reduction: Will a bank tax help reduce the deficit?
pro_2_1	Bank tax will help reduce large US deficit	 Bank tax will help reduce large US deficit French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde said on January 15, 2010 that U.S. President Barack Obama was justified to propose a bank tax: "[U.S. banks] have dug a $117 billion hole and President Obama is justifiably saying he wants that hole plugged."[3]
con_2_1	2010 bank tax will raise less revenue due to evasion	 2010 bank tax will raise less revenue due to evasion Jeffrey Miron. "Bailing out the Banks Was Wrong, but New Tax Won't Make It Right." Investor's Business Daily. January 14, 2010: "The proposed tax will also raise less revenue than promised, again because those subject to the tax will take steps to avoid it. Relocation overseas is one approach; accounting gimmickry is another. The net revenue raised may even be negative because the U.S. will not collect income or payroll taxes from those thrown out of work by an exodus of financial institutions."
con_2_2	Bank tax is too small to impact deficit	 Bank tax is too small to impact deficit Ezra Klein. "Obama's bank-friendly bank tax." Washington Post. January 15, 2010: "The bigger problem, though, is conceptual: Confining the tax to repayment of TARP when we've got a massive budget deficit and when further stimulus spending is constrained because no one knows how to pay for it is, well, a huge gift to the banks. There's just no other way to put it. [...] it's protecting the banks from a much more punitive tax that isn't limited to money they already have to repay."
headline_3	Stability: Will a bank tax help stabilize the economy?
pro_3_1	Bank tax counter-acts expansionary effect of bailout	 Bank tax counter-acts expansionary effect of bailout "The Bank Tax." Gregory Mankiw Blog. January 15, 2010: "One thing we have learned over the past couple years is that Washington is not going to let large financial institutions fail.  The bailouts of the past will surely lead people to expect bailouts in the future.  Bailouts are a specific type of subsidy--a contingent subsidy, but a subsidy nonetheless. [...] In the presence of a government subsidy, firms tend to over-expand beyond the point of economic efficiency.  In particular, the expectation of a bailout when things go wrong will lead large financial institutions to grow too much and take on too much risk. [...] we can offset the effects of the subsidy with a tax.  If well written, the new tax law would counteract the effects of the implicit subsidies from expected future bailouts."
pro_3_2	2010 bank tax will deter future risk-taking by banks	 2010 bank tax will deter future risk-taking by banks "Obama's bank tax will only work if there's a master plan in place." Telegraph. January 14, 2010: "The Obama bank levy is intended to do more than punish banks. It will, if it works, not only make banks pay retrospectively for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) but change their behaviour in the future. The message that state bail-outs will not be cost free should act as a deterrent and the favourable treatment of deposit-taking institutions is designed to make some sorts of business – those the government wishes to encourage – more desirable than others."
con_3_1	Bank tax will not reduce risk-taking at banks	 Bank tax will not reduce risk-taking at banks "Bank tax won't solve problems." Denver Post Editorial. January 14, 2010: "we question whether it will be structured fairly and if it truly will discourage the kinds of risky behavior that led to the financial crisis — and if that's even the proper role of this particular tax [...] Isn't it the role of regulation to expose and even prevent the use of the crazy derivatives that led to the recent credit crisis? It's clear that during this last crisis the markets were incapable of assessing the risk that financial institutions were taking. [...] Greater transparency and reporting requirements would give the markets the ability to analyze risks and set value accordingly. [...] We'd like to see more progress on those fronts rather than assessing taxes that very well could be passed on to consumers and shareholders."
con_3_2	2010 bank tax puts US banks at disadvantage globally	 2010 bank tax puts US banks at disadvantage globally Republican National Committee Chairman Mel Martinez said after the announcement of the tax in January of 2010: "This is a significant 10-year tax which may put U.S. banks at a very disadvantageous position in terms of world competition. This is not just for the bonuses this year."[4]
headline_4	Jobs: Will a bank tax help or hurt job creation?
pro_4_1	Bank tax is not too great of a burden on banks	 Bank tax is not too great of a burden on banks Peter Eavis. "Obama's gentle bank tax." Wall Street Journal. January 14, 2010: "Will Obama's bank tax be that taxing for the banks? [...] Let's say the administration wants to raise about $100 billion over 10 years by taxing market debt. Paying out $10 billion a year is no sweat for an industry that, according to Goldman Sachs, made $250 billion in earnings before taxes and loan-loss provisions last year. And it won't drive up their funding costs by much. Goldman estimates $5.5 trillion of nondeposit liabilities at large banks. To get to $100 billion in 10 years on that sum would mean the banks paying a manageable 0.2 percentage point extra a year."
con_4_1	2010 US bank tax will kill jobs created/fostered by banks	 2010 US bank tax will kill jobs created/fostered by banks Massachusetts state senator and US Senate candidate Scott Brown told the Wall Street Journal on January 15, 2010 in response to the bank tax: "opposed to higher taxes, especially in the midst of a severe recession. [...] Raising taxes will kill jobs."[5]
headline_5	Vs other bailouts: Is it fair to tax banks and not auto-makers?
pro_5_1	AIG bailout benefited banks; bank tax justified	 AIG bailout benefited banks; bank tax justified Peter Cohan. "Why Obama's $90 billion bank tax is fair game." Daily Finance. January 17, 2010: "The banks, of course, say 'no fair.' But I disagree. Despite wriggling in front of Congress yesterday, Wall Street is the primary culprit for the financial crisis and should pick up these losses -- especially AIG's. That's because many Wall Street banks got a back door bailout through AIG when the government made good on the credit default swap payments AIG owed the banks but couldn't pay on."
con_5_1	Why tax banks and not other bailed-out institutions?	 Why tax banks and not other bailed-out institutions? "Bank tax won't solve problems." Denver Post Editorial. January 14, 2010: "It's the automakers, AIG, and mortgage payment modifications that appear to be at risk for not repaying government money. [...] If that is truly the case, then why should banks ante up for the inability of other industries to repay government money? [...] We surely hope the president addresses this issue during his announcement today about the bank tax plan."
con_5_2	Bank tax unfairly targets biggest 50 banks	 Bank tax unfairly targets biggest 50 banks Christopher Beam. "Bank Shot." Slate. January 14, 2010: "Nowhere does the [bailout] legislation say that the 50 biggest firms have to pay back the loans. That responsibility could have fallen to any number of financial institutions. It was the Obama administration's idea to focus on the big guys—a decision that's hard to explain entirely in nonpolitical terms."
