title	Full-body scanners at airports
question	Should counter-terrorism efforts include full-body scans at airports?
headline_1	Effectiveness: Are fully-body scans an effective tool to counter terrorism?
pro_1_1	Scanners help reveal hidden weapons and bombs	 Scanners help reveal hidden weapons and bombs Former Homeland Security chief Michael Chertoff told the Washington Post, "You’ve got to find some way of detecting things in parts of the body that aren’t easy to get at. It’s either pat downs or imaging, or otherwise hoping that bad guys haven’t figured it out, and I guess bad guys have figured it out."[1]
pro_1_2	Fully-body scanners reveal metallic and non-metallic items	 Fully-body scanners reveal metallic and non-metallic items Greg Soule, a spokesperson for the Transportation Security Agency, was cited as saying in a December 31, 2009 Christian Science Monitor article: "'It has the ability to detect both metallic and non-metallic threats under the clothing of a passenger. And that can include both improvised explosive devices as well as firearms."[2]
pro_1_3	Full-body scans make terrorist attacks more difficult	 Full-body scans make terrorist attacks more difficult Michael Chertoff, the former homeland security secretary, said in an interview: “nothing is 100 percent [but] The more difficult you make it for someone to conceal weapons, the fewer people who are going to be willing or capable of concealment.”[3]
pro_1_4	Full-body scans are a valuable piece of larger strategy	 Full-body scans are a valuable piece of larger strategy "Full-body scanners are a help, but no panacea." The Boston Globe. January 10, 2010: "No single technology can keep terrorists from boarding airplanes with bomb materials. That’s why expensive full-body scanners are not cure-alls for security breaches. It’s wise to expand the use of scanners, but only as part of a broader strategy to make flying safer."
con_1_1	Terrorists will change tactics to avoid airport scanners	 Terrorists will change tactics to avoid airport scanners Bruce Schneier, a security expert who has been critical of full-body scanners, said to the New York Times in December of 2009: "If there are a hundred tactics and I protect against two of them, I’m not making you safer. If we use full-body scanning, they’re going to do something else."[4]
con_1_2	Scanners do not reveal things in body cavities	 Scanners do not reveal things in body cavities Full-body scanners are incapable of revealing explosives hidden in body cavities, which has been an age-old method for smuggling contraband. Future terrorist plots are likely to include such efforts, and have the potential to get-around body scanners.
con_1_3	Scanners do not detect low-density items very well	 Scanners do not detect low-density items very well A British defense-research firm reportedly found that full-body scanners can be unreliable in detecting "low-density" materials like plastics, chemicals, and liquids, which is what the 2009 Christmas "underwear bomber" had stuffed in his briefs. While a hazy outline is often revealed for such items, the blurriness can often prevent the detection of such items, particularly when hundreds of thousands of passengers are being screened daily.[5]
con_1_4	Full-body scanners will slow airport security check-points.	Full-body scanners will slow airport security check-points. The International Air Transport Association says the scanning process will take 45 seconds for each passenger, which would create two-to-five-hour flight delays, according to Andrew Compart, senior editor for Aviation Week.
con_1_5	Full-body scanners distract from human intelligence	 Full-body scanners distract from human intelligence Scott Stewart, vice president of tactical intelligence at the global consultancy Stratford, criticized body scanners in a quote in Time magazine in 2010: "We have a tendency to over-rely on technology, especially Americans, instead of human intelligence."[6]
headline_2	Rights: Are fully-body scanners consistent with individual rights?
pro_2_1	Protecting life with scanners more important than privacy	 Protecting life with scanners more important than privacy A January 2010 front-page editorial in the German daily Die Welt: "Privacy finds its limits when the life of others is at risk, and that is the case in this matter. People who are worried and put their privacy above the lives of others should not underestimate the extent to which Germans would like to stay alive."[7]
pro_2_2	Terror attack violates rights more than body scans	 Terror attack violates rights more than body scans Jon Adler of the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association told The Washington Post in January of 2009: "I think a bomb detonating on a plane is the biggest invasion of privacy a person can experience."[8]
pro_2_3	Outlines can be obscured to protect privacy.	Outlines can be obscured to protect privacy. In many existing full-body scanners, faces can be obscured or bodies reduced to the equivalent of a chalk outline. Such measures can eliminate risk of scans violating privacy and child-porn laws.
pro_2_4	Scanned body images are ghost-like, not pornographic	 Scanned body images are ghost-like, not pornographic Scott Armstrong, spokesperson for the Greater Toronto Airports Authority, said in December of 2009 in response to the Christmas Day terror attempt: "They are not naked images. It's more like a ghost-like outline."[9] Body scans are not, therefore, akin to a "virtual strip-search" or a "peep show" as critics have claimed.
pro_2_5	Security personnel viewing scans are in different room	 Security personnel viewing scans are in different room Person reviewing the images must be in a separate room and cannot see who is entering the scanner. This protects privacy rights and the association of any images with any one identity.
pro_2_6	Scanners can be modified so images can't be stored	 Scanners can be modified so images can't be stored This eliminates the risk that scanners could save images for abusive personal use, or that somehow images could find their way onto the Internet.
pro_2_7	Scanning procedure is always optional to all passengers.	Scanning procedure is always optional to all passengers. Anyone who refuses to be scanned will receive an equivalent screening in a full pat-down. So, the passenger has the choice, and is not coerced into receiving what may be viewed by the individual as an intrusive "virtual strip search". The Canadian Air Transport Security Authority, for example, implemented such a program in May of 2010 at Kelowna airport in B.C., where passengers were body-scanned on a voluntary basis, apparently without major complaint.[10]
pro_2_8	Some scanners use software, not eyes, to detect potential weapons.	Some scanners use software, not eyes, to detect potential weapons. Some scanners have new software that don't need a human operator. The computer looks at the picture and can analyze the picture without human screeners looking on, and without the subsequent privacy and abuse concerns.[11]
con_2_1	Body scanners at airports violate privacy	 Body scanners at airports violate privacy Jay Stanley, a privacy expert in the ACLU's Washington office: "Giving the government the authority to scrutinize your body is tremendous invasion of privacy, and the benefits are questionable."[12] 
con_2_2	Full-body scanners create peep-show for screeners	 Full-body scanners create "peep-show" for screeners Philip Bradbourn, a British politicians, said in 2009: "[The] technology has the potential to turn a legitimate security concern into an unacceptable peepshow for security industries."[13]
con_2_3	Privacy rights need not be sacrificed for security	 Privacy rights need not be sacrificed for security  Rep. Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah, said on January 9th, 2010: "We don't need to look at naked 8-year-olds and grandmothers to secure airplanes. Are we really going to subject 2 million people per day to that? I think it's a false argument to say we have to give up all of our personal privacy in order to have security."[14]
con_2_4	Full-body scans intrude on those not suspected of crimes	 Full-body scans intrude on those not suspected of crimes A letter of protest from a coalition of 24 privacy organizations to Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, including the Electronic Privacy Information Center and the American Civil Liberties Union: "Your agency will be capturing the naked photographs of millions of American air travelers suspected of no wrongdoing."[15]
con_2_5	Airport body-scanners violate cultural sensitivities	 Airport body-scanners violate cultural sensitivities Arthur Weinreb. "Full-body scanners; it's just common sense." Canada Free Press. January 8, 2010: "The real privacy argument is of course that some people will be deterred from flying due to 'cultural (read, Muslim) sensitivities' to being seen naked especially by members of the opposite sex."
headline_3	Child protections: Do full-body scanners protect rights of minors?
pro_3_1	Security scans of children are not pornographic	 Security scans of children are not pornographic Arthur Weinreb. "Full-body scanners; it's just common sense." Canada Free Press. January 8, 2010: "Minors should be scanned and to link these scans to child porn is ludicrous. Police officers routinely possess child pornography all the time. Not only do they possess it but they distribute it to prosecutors who further distribute it to defense lawyers. Then the prosecutors further distribute it to judges who show juries. For some reason these people aren’t considered to have committed criminal acts because they are doing what they do to protect the public. Just like those who operate full body scanners are doing."
pro_3_2	Minors can be exempted from full-body scans.	Minors can be exempted from full-body scans. Minors can be exempted from full-body scans if necessary. Such policies have been implemented in many airports. Such policies can be implemented without abandoning the benefits of body scans all-together.
pro_3_3	Scanners can be modified to accommodate children.	Scanners can be modified to accommodate children. Terrorist groups do not do age discrimination when it comes to situations of terrorist's acts. However, #1 the photographs can be obscured or face can be covered while scanning showcasing pictures like these. #2 the pictures are ghostly (i.e they don affect privacy issues for minors) #3 the new full body scan machines are well equipped to make such security checks are not obscene. We shouldn't gamble with lives on issues which can be tackled by policies & technology.
con_3_1	Full-body scanners violate child protection laws.	Full-body scanners violate child protection laws. The rapid introduction of full body scanners at British airports threatens to breach child protection laws which ban the creation of indecent images of children. There is a certain risk that naked images of children from scans could be distributed over the Internet. But, even if such abuses are prevented, it is wrong for security screeners to be able to view these nude images. 
con_3_2	Body scans will make many children and parents uncomfortable.	Body scans will make many children and parents uncomfortable. Body scans will make many parents as well as children uncomfortable about an unknown security screeners viewing a child's genitalia and buttocks. And, while some parents may be willing to put their children through such an exposure, the discomfort felt by many others is of major concern.
headline_4	Vs. alternatives: Are full-body scanners more effective than the alternatives?
pro_4_1	Full-body scans more effectively reveal concealed weapons.	Full-body scans more effectively reveal concealed weapons. Full-body scans look under the cloths to clearly reveal potential weapons and bombs. Pat-downs cannot do this as effectively, as they rely on touch. Thick clothing can avoid detection by pat-downs, and pat-downs cannot enter into the genital and buttocks areas sufficiently (do to privacy concerns), which is why weapons are often concealed in under-wear. Scanners get around these potential hick-ups, effectively revealing any potential weapons and bombs in these sensitive areas of the body.
pro_4_2	Full-body scanners are less intrusive than pat-downs	 Full-body scanners are less intrusive than pat-downs Scanners involve a person looking at a rough outline of the body in a separate room without knowing the identity of the person. Pat-downs involve a security agent touching the body of an individual and seeing that person's face and identity. The former is far less intrusive, considering that touching is a greater violation than seeing, and because knowing someone's identity in connection with a pat-down search is a problem. 
pro_4_3	Scans apply to everyone, avoid profiling with pat-downs.	Scans apply to everyone, avoid "profiling" with pat-downs. One of the problems of relying on selective security pat-downs is that it is often dependent upon assumptions surrounding a persons ethnicity or religion. Scanners avoid this by searching everyone without regard to race or religion.
con_4_1	There are better alternatives to body scanners at airports	 There are better alternatives to body scanners at airports Chris McBee, director of sales and marketing for Syagen Technology, developed a prototype called The Guardian. TSA contributed $1.5 million but did not continue the program. That’s unfortunate, Mr. McBee says: "We have a better mousetrap. There are solutions out there that are viable alternatives to whole body imaging and that have superior detection characteristics." In addition to The Guardian, others say that a device called "the puffer" has advantages. The device relies on puffed air to knock-loose and detect possible bomb materials on a passenger. This allows for the superior detection of hard-to-find materials in places like body cavities. And, it also avoids the privacy implications of full-body scanners.[16]
con_4_2	Alternatives to body scanners don't sacrifice privacy	 Alternatives to body scanners don't sacrifice privacy U.S. Rep. Jason Chaffetz, Utah Republican, told The Salt Lake Tribune in Washington: "It's a difficult balance between protecting our civil liberties and protecting the safety of people on airplanes. I believe there's technology out there that can identify bomb-type materials without necessarily, overly invading our privacy."[17]
headline_5	Health: Are full-body scanners a minimal health risk?
pro_5_1	Full-body scanners pose less risk than most natural radiation.	Full-body scanners pose less risk than most natural radiation. The doses delivered by the scanners are tiny by any standard. Passengers would get the same dose in a few minutes in a high-altitude jet, where most of the earth’s atmosphere is not available to shield people from the cosmic rays.[18]
pro_5_2	Full-body scans are well within radiation standards	 Full-body scans are well within radiation standards A spokeswoman for the Transportation Security Administration, Kristin Lee, said in a January 2010, New York Times article that even for pregnant women, children and people whose genetic makeup made them more susceptible to X-ray damage, "It would take more than 1,000 screenings per individual per year" to exceed radiation standards.[19]
pro_5_3	Full-body scans pose no more risk than x-ray machines	 Full-body scans pose no more risk than x-ray machines Arthur Weinreb. "Full-body scanners; it's just common sense." Canada Free Press. January 8, 2010: "The CBC warned that the scanners emit radiation. Well, if ways have been found protect x-ray technicians and others who work with radiation, then the screeners can be protected. And there was nothing to suggest that flyers who get scanned are at risk although when the machines are put into use, that will inevitably come up." 
headline_6	Economics: Is the price of full-body scanners reasonable/worth-it?
pro_6_1	The price of a human life is incalculable.	The price of a human life is incalculable. Comparing the cost of a body scanner to the cost of saving human lives from a mid-air attack, foreign or domestic, is pointless. A human life's value, its potential to grow, prosper, and contribute to society, cannot be compared to the estimated retail price of a machine.
con_6_1	Full-body scanners cannot replace human security staff in terms of cost-efficiency.	Full-body scanners cannot replace human security staff in terms of cost-efficiency. Although the fact is conceded that full-body scanners may be more effective in terms of increasing security, it is not economically possible for the company to completely rely airport security on these machines. They are expensive to manufacture in the first place. Secondly, they require constant maintenance that will always persist as a spot on the airport's budget allocated. Third, replacement for these machines will be costlier and time-consuming to perform as compared to replacing human security staff. 
con_6_2	Full-body scanners are very expensive.	Full-body scanners are very expensive. They can cost around $150,000 each. This is very expensive, when considering that any proposal to have a comprehensive system of full-body scanners in nations internationally would require hundreds of these machines. This is particularly true when you consider that many of these machines must be placed in an airport in order to maintain short security lines.[21]
