title	Merry Christmas vs Happy Holidays
question	Should businesses, governments, and orgs say "merry Christmas" or "happy holidays"?
headline_1	Spirit: Should merry Christmas be taken in good spirit?
pro_1_1	Merry Christmas should be taken in good spirit	 "Merry Christmas" should be taken in good spirit Frydman-Kohl, a rabbi in a large conservative synagogue in the United States, said in 2002: "If someone doesn't know I'm Jewish and says `Merry Christmas' to me, it's not time for a lesson on how one might greet people. It's time to accept it in a good spirit and wish someone well. I don't want to be the Grinch who stole Christmas."[2]
pro_1_2	Cheering merry Christmas is not cheering against non-Christians	 Cheering "merry Christmas" is not cheering against non-Christians Ross Day. "I'll say it: Merry Christmas." Keizer Times. December 17, 2009: "why stop at Christmas? In America, Super Bowl Sunday has become something of a holiday. However, by calling that day 'Super Bowl Sunday,' aren't we recognizing and supporting fans of professional American football and risking offending fans of college football, high school football and even fans of soccer (which is called football outside of the United States)? I propose we simply refer to Super Bowl Sunday as 'football Sunday,' just to be politically correct."
pro_1_3	Merry Christmas doesn't usually offend non-Christians	 "Merry Christmas" doesn't usually offend non-Christians Don Feder. "The Jewish Case for 'Merry Christmas'" Front Page Magazine. December 7th, 2006: "The Best Buy website offers 'unique gifts for the season.' According to Liberty Counsel (a Christian legal action group), a company spokesman claims the use of the word 'Christmas' is disrespectful. Disrespectful to who? The 5% of the American people who don’t celebrate Christmas? But how many of them actually care? (For years, people said 'Merry Christmas' to me, without inflicting severe emotional harm.) Would it be disrespectful for a clerk in Tel Aviv to wish someone a 'Happy Hanukkah'?"
pro_1_4	Merry Christmas makes people happier than happy holidays	 "Merry Christmas" makes people happier than "happy holidays" Christmas shopper Brooke Ring of Virginia said in December of 2009: "It really puts a smile on my face to hear people say Merry Christmas maybe instead of Happy Holidays or Seasons' Greetings or something of that nature."[3]
pro_1_5	General statements in favor of saying merry Christmas	General statements in favor of saying merry Christmas
con_1_1	Happy holidays covers all the holidays of the season	 "Happy holidays" covers all the holidays of the season Hanukkah and sometimes Eid al Fitr fall in the same period as Christmas. Hanukkah as a Holiday predates the Christmas holiday by almost 200 years [4] as it dates from the 1st Century AD. Christmas was forbidden by the early Christian Church and created a Holiday coinciding with the pagan Feast of Sol Invictus by the Roman Emperor, Constantine the Great, in the 4th century AD. A significant portion of the US population, over 20%, are non-christian. 
con_1_2	Merry Christmas only camp is over zealous	 "Merry Christmas only" camp is over zealous "Say 'Merry Christmas' -- or else! 'MC-only' zealots insist." USA Today, Faith and Reason. November 27th, 2009: "We're heading for December when zealous guardians of the 'Say-'Merry Christmas'-or-you'll-be-sorry' movement will be in their glory, defending Christianity from a fictional 'War on Christmas.' Among the early blasts of 'MC-Only' wrath for 2009, is one directed at Best Buy. The electronics superstores, in a horrifying burst of inclusivity, printed Happy Eid Al-Adha' in their Thanksgiving Day sale circular. This year, the Eid dates, which shift with the lunar calendar followed by Islam, coincide with the Christmas and Hanukkah shopping stampede. [...] Best Buy is standing by these best wishes despite a drubbing from the American Family Association, which treats 'Happy Holidays' or 'Season's Greetings' with the outrage normally reserved for profanity, flag burning or flogging puppies."
con_1_3	Merry Christmas can offend non-Christians.	"Merry Christmas" can offend non-Christians. Organizations and businesses that have a policy of saying "merry Christmas" risk being seen as favoring Christians. A non-Christian that receives the message "merry Christmas" could certainly, therefore, feel their faith is being excluded or just under-considered, and could thus react very negatively to the message. Subsequently, while "merry Christmas" certainly makes Christians happy, it carries the risk of offending non-Christians. No matter what the intended "spirit" of "merry Christmas", this risk is real for non-Christians. "Happy holidays", in so-far as it is less likely to offend, is therefore in better keeping with the Christmas spirit. 
headline_2	Inclusiveness: Is merry Christmas inclusive enough?
pro_2_1	Existing laws check prejudiced use of merry Christmas	 Existing laws check prejudiced use of "merry Christmas" Bill Allin. "Is "Merry Christmas!" Politically Incorrect?": "The political correctness movement was ostensibly an uprising of sensible and sensitive people against those who would offend minorities. On the surface this sounds acceptable. However, we have laws that make real prejudice and racism indictable offences."  
pro_2_2	Merry Christmas is acceptable in multi-cultural society	 Merry Christmas is acceptable in multi-cultural society Leslie Scrivener. "The case for Merry Christmas." December 24, 2002: "Being greeted with Merry Christmas doesn't distress Ph.D. student Cheshmak Farhoumand-Sims, who is Baha'i, either. 'I'm not offended when someone says `Merry Christmas.' I say `Merry Christmas' back. I just recognize we're living in a multicultural society that's predominately Christian.'"
con_2_1	Happy holidays is inclusive vs exclusive merry Christmas.	"Happy holidays" is inclusive vs exclusive "merry Christmas". The term "Happy Holidays" is inclusive of "Merry Christmas" and Christians. However "Merry Christmas" does not include other holidays. So the effort to "keep Christ in Christmas" is actually an effort to "Keep non-Christians out of Christmas."
headline_3	War on Christmas: Is happy holidays part of a war on Christmas?
pro_3_1	Happy holidays is part of secular war on Christmas	 "Happy holidays" is part of secular war on Christmas Don Feder. "The Jewish Case for 'Merry Christmas'" Front Page Magazine. December 7th, 2006: "The refusal of retailers to wish 95% of the American people a 'Merry Christmas,' is but a seasonal manifestation of the secularist jihad." 
pro_3_2	Those offended by Merry Christmas are prejudiced	 Those offended by "Merry Christmas" are prejudiced Bill Allin. "Is "Merry Christmas!" Politically Incorrect?": "Political correctness was itself a form of prejudice used by supremely self-righteous people, supposedly against those who acted prejudicially. [...] It's one way to put down 'others' (those who are not 'like us') without breaking the law."
con_3_1	Happy holidays advocates are not against Christmas.	"Happy holidays" advocates are not against Christmas. Many have framed this debate as if the people encouraging the use of Happy Holidays or Seasons Greetings are trying to secularize Christmas. This is an improper formation of the debate. Googling "Keep Christ out of Christmas" finds virtually no websites dedicated to "secularizing Christmas." However, "Keep Christ in Christmas" results in thousands of web pages with many advocacy groups. Some of these groups call for a boycott of retailers who are using the more inclusive greeting of "Happy Holidays"  rather than "Merry Christmas." 
headline_4	Public opinion:
pro_4_1	Strong majority of Americans support merry Christmas.	Strong majority of Americans support "merry Christmas". A 2007 Rasmussen Reports poll asked adults which phrase they prefer to see in stores’ seasonal advertising. “Merry Christmas” won handily, with 67 percent of the vote, vs. 26 percent for “Happy holidays.”[5]
