title	Gene patents
question	Are gene patents, particularly related to food and agricultural products, a good idea?
headline_1	Patentability? Are gene sequences patentable under existing law?
pro_1_1	Isolated gene sequences are new, not part of nature	 Isolated gene sequences are new, not "part of nature" Geoffrey M. Karny. "In Defense of Gene Patenting." Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology News. April 1, 2007: "A person who discovers a new function of a known DNA sequence, such as its previously unknown association with particular disease, can patent a method of using the isolated sequence to detect susceptibility to that disease. Isolated DNA sequences do not occur in nature. They are new."
pro_1_2	Gene patents do not apply to natural genes	 Gene patents do not apply to natural genes According to the US government's Human Genome Project website, "In general, raw products of nature are not patentable. DNA products usually become patentable when they have been isolated, purified, or modified to produce a unique form not found in nature."[1]
pro_1_3	Gene patents are non-obvious.	Gene patents are non-obvious. Supporters of gene patenting say gene function is not obvious and that genes are not mere discoveries because the genes are patented together with inventive descriptions of how they can be used for diagnosis or therapy.
pro_1_4	Gene patents do not give ownership over others' genes	 Gene patents do not give ownership over others' genes Geoffrey M. Karny. "In Defense of Gene Patenting." Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology News. April 1, 2007: "Crichton and other critics often ask, 'How can anyone own my genes?' The answer is that they cannot. What someone can “own” is a DNA sequence that he or she was the first to isolate and that is useful." 
pro_1_5	Gene sequencing can be useful and thus can be patented.	Gene sequencing can be "useful" and thus can be patented. Gene sequencing is very "useful", at criteria for patents under US law and elsewhere, as it allows the determination of the effects of genes and how they can be adapted to certain bio-medical or bio-agricultural products."Patenting life is owning life." Third World Network
pro_1_6	Gene sequencing can be novel and thus can be patented.	Gene sequencing can be "novel" and thus can be patented. Gene sequencing can certainly be "novel", another criteria for patenting under USPTO rules, in the sense that it has never been done before. Certainly the knowledge, and possibly the gene modifications can be entirely new.
pro_1_7	Gene sequencing can be non-obvious and thus can be patented.	Gene sequencing can be "non-obvious" and thus can be patented. Gene sequencing can certainly be "non-obvious", one more US Patenting and Trade Office rule for patents, which means that no other individual skilled in the field could have necessarily easily performed the discovery. This is evidenced by the great investments and technologies that must be used to sequence any gene. 
con_1_1	Genes are part of nature so should not be patented	 Genes are part of nature so should not be patented Biodiversity of this planet is the common heritage of humankind. Living organisms are no one's inventions and therefore never be patented  and put under private control. Living organisms should not be placed on the same level as human technnical inventions. Patents may make access to genetic resources more difficult and in some cases block that access altogether.
con_1_2	Gene sequences can be discovered and mapped, but not invented	 Gene sequences can be discovered and mapped, but not invented The very definition of patents suggests that it is related to invention rather than discovery. Opponents of gene patenting argue that genes are pure discoveries, rather than inventions. They also point out that with modern automated gene analysis techniques, the non-obviousness of genes is becoming doubtful.
con_1_3	Genes can be re-ordered, but not invented	 Genes can be re-ordered, but not invented "Patenting life is owning life." Third World Network: "whilst I create my carburettor out of materials that have nothing to do with delivering measured amounts of petroleum, I introduce genes or traits into an organism only if they already exist as such in another organism or organisms. Can I patent a car because I fit it with a different kind of carburettor from another car? Therefore breeding and genetic engineering reorganise something existing; they do not create anything de novo. Considering achievements in reorganising as if they were inventions, is a distortion of meaning, with the aim of distorting reality. This distortion is made for a specific purpose, for controlling living things in the same way as one can control machines one has invented." 
con_1_4	Uses of genes may be patentable, but not genes themselves	 Uses of genes may be patentable, but not genes themselves Ségolène Aymé, a medical geneticist at the French National Institute for Health and Medical Research in Paris and head of the PPPC, told The Scientist: "What is patentable is the inventive process — if you can describe how to use a gene for a specific purpose — but not the gene itself."[2] 
con_1_5	Genes cannot be owned practically, are part of commons	 Genes cannot be owned practically, are part of commons  David Koepsell. "The Case Against Gene Patents." Practicing Law Institute. June 13, 2009: "I argue that the genome is a commons. There are parts of the world that cannot be owned in any practical sense. Radio spectra are my favorite example. There’s no way to exert ownership over a particular band. [...] I argue that genes [...] are simply unencloseable. Parents all over the world are reproducing patented genes, technically violating the patents on those genes because they haven’t sought permission and aren’t paying royalties. The idea is absurd, of course. This is why the practice is absurd. Unmodified genes simply cannot be owned, nor should they be."
con_1_6	No certainty that a patented gene sequence is unique to a species	 No certainty that a patented gene sequence is unique to a species "Patenting life is owning life." Third World Network: "If we use the determination of the nucleic acid sequence constituting a gene as a criterion for patenting, and I understand that this is the case, how would we know that the sequence is unique to the organism being patented? The number of species on earth is estimated to be 10 to 60 million. So far, we know the nucleic acid sequences of all the genes only for one species, the bacterium Escherschia coli. Assuming that the patenting of a nucleic acid sequence can be allowed only if it is new to life, which would make it a genuine invention, could we ever be certain that a nucleic acid sequence which we find in an organism is really new to life? Obviously not. If we allow patenting for a mere determination of nucleic acid sequences, how will we cope with the sequences which are the same but are in different species?"
headline_2	Research: Do gene patents help or harm research and development?
pro_2_1	Patents provide incentive for R&D investment in product	 Patents provide incentive for R&D investment in product Geoffrey M. Karny. "In Defense of Gene Patenting." Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology News. April 1, 2007: "In the noise and misinformation about gene patents, basic, common-sense principles are lost. These principles have supported the patent system for over 200 years and have contributed to the technological greatness of this nation and to the benefits that technology brings to humankind. They bear repeating. The inventor brings something new to the world. The patent provides the incentive to bring it to market. And new biomedical and agricultural products improve the human condition."
pro_2_2	Little evidence exists that gene patents hurt research	 Little evidence exists that gene patents hurt research Timothy Caulfield. "Do gene patents hurt research?" Science Progress. October 29, 2009: "There is little evidence that the problem exists. There is lots of social angst, but no good data showing a widespread patent thicket/anti-commons phenomenon. A large 2007 study by the American Association for the Advancement of Science found “very little evidence of an ‘anticommons problem.’” A 2005 study done for the National Academy of Sciences found only 1 percent of the scientists surveyed reported suffering a project delay of more than 1 month due to patents."
pro_2_3	Gene patents do not offer monopoly power to inventors	 Gene patents do not offer monopoly power to inventors Geoffrey M. Karny. "In Defense of Gene Patenting." Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology News. April 1, 2007: "It is also not a monopoly, even though the right extends to a class of things, because a monopoly is defined by market power. As many a disappointed inventor well knows, having a patent is no guarantee of commercial success. Quite simply, a patent is granted to provide the inventor and/or his company or investors the incentive to undertake the costly and risky process of further development and commercialization. They will do so because they can charge enough for the product to recover their investment. [...] In return, the public gets the invention, but not for free. What it gets for free is the new technical knowledge to build on because the patent must disclose how to make and how to use the invention in terms that a person skilled in that technology can understand. And, after the patent expires, the public even gets the invention for free."
pro_2_4	Gene patents allow others to use and profit-from invention	 Gene patents allow others to use and profit-from invention Geoffrey M. Karny. "In Defense of Gene Patenting." Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology News. April 1, 2007: "The invention must be described in a manner to enable other people skilled in that technology to make and use it. This permits others in the field to build on the new knowledge. Finally, the invention must be clearly claimed so that the public knows the scope of the limited property right."
pro_2_5	Gene patent are a necessary evil.	Gene patent are a necessary evil. Advocates for gene patents put for ward the point that Gene Patents is a necessity to understand the tiniest of details of nature and its organisms through R&D.
con_2_1	Gene patent monopolies impair research and development	 Gene patent monopolies impair research and development David Kravets  "ACLU: Human Gene Patents Infringe Speech." ACLU. May 13, 2009: "Myriad Genetics, owns the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes associated with hereditary forms of breast and ovarian cancer. They also own the only currently available diagnostic test for these genes, which they sell for a little over three thousand dollars. And they control the right to allow testing and experimentation on these genes. It is no exaggeration to say that Myriad controls every facet of those genes. As a result, many women have been unable to get vital health information, and scientists have been unable to perform important research without paying large sums of money to Myriad."
con_2_2	Gene patents impair research on diseases	 Gene patents impair research on diseases Julian Borger. "Rush to patent genes stalls cures for disease." Guardian.co.uk. December 15, 2009: "Vital medical research aimed at developing screening methods and cures for congenital diseases is being stifled by the rush to patent human genes and the corporate use of those patents to maximise profits. A poll of American laboratory directors found that a quarter of them had received letters from lawyers acting for biotechnology companies ordering them to stop carrying out clinical tests designed to spot early warning signs for Alzheimer's disease, breast cancer and an array of other disorders."
con_2_3	Patent licenses are very costly, impair R and D	 Patent licenses are very costly, impair R and D Michael Crichton. "Patenting Life." New York Times (Op-Ed). February 13, 2007: "Apologists for gene patents argue that the issue is a tempest in a teapot, that patent licenses are readily available at minimal cost. That’s simply untrue. The owner of the genome for Hepatitis C is paid millions by researchers to study this disease. Not surprisingly, many other researchers choose to study something less expensive."
con_2_4	Gene patenting can violate freedom of thought.	Gene patenting can violate freedom of thought. U.S. District Judge Robert W. Sweet of New York ruled in November of 2009 that a case against gene patents by Myriad Genetics of Salt Lake City could proceed. This was on the basis that Gene patents grant Myriad ownership rights over products of nature, laws of nature, natural phenomena, abstract ideas and basic human knowledge and thought, and that this could violate the First Amendment’s protections over freedom of thought.
con_2_5	Gene patenting invites malicious lawsuits from patent-holders	 Gene patenting invites malicious lawsuits from patent-holders Gene Patenting. Debatabase. April 14, 2009: "In those twenty years of a patent’s duration, any prospective research is carried out in fear of recriminations and law-suits from the patent-holder. Academic medical scientists are scared into discontinuing research lest there institution be hit by a costly law-suit from a patent holder."
headline_3	Economics/Innovation: Do gene patents encourage biotechnological innovation?
pro_3_1	Gene patents are essential to future of biotech industry	 Gene patents are essential to future of biotech industry Danny Rose. "Gene patents ban 'would hit biotech'." Sydney Morning Herald. November 5, 2009: "Changing Australian law to explicitly rule out patents being applied to human genes would drive research jobs and investment dollars offshore, an expert panel says. [...] The potential change, now under consideration by a Senate inquiry, also threatened to 'bring the Australian biotech industry to its knees', says the Institute of Patent and Trademark Attorneys of Australia (IPTA), which staged the panel event on Thursday. [...] 'It would seriously affect the biotechnology industry in that it would be difficult to attract investment in research that has commercial opportunities if it couldn't be protected,' IPTA councillor Trevor Davies said while at the event in Sydney."
pro_3_2	Gene patents help drive major economic breakthroughs.	Gene patents help drive major economic breakthroughs. Genetically engineered plants and animals, such as GM maize or lab mice designed to be prone to cancer, should be patented as they help bring about invention of new medicines through research on them. This may lead to major breakthroughs in the field of medicines and other related fields in diagnosis of various diseases.
con_3_1	Gene patents do not incentivize innovation	 Gene patents do not incentivize innovation David Koepsell. "The Case Against Gene Patents." Practicing Law Institute. June 13, 2009: "patents to non-new discoveries [such as gene sequences] does not encourage innovation, and sitting on what are essentially laws of nature, so far upstream, actually stifles downstream innovation."
con_3_2	Gene patents imagine R&D only done by private companies	 Gene patents imagine R&D only done by private companies Gene Patenting. Debatabase. April 14, 2009: "Most research is not done by private companies. The Human Genome Project has contributed by far the greater amount of knowledge in this area. In some cases it seems that private companies have speedily patented genes, which public scientists claim to have discovered first. The percentage of ‘Biotechnology’ firms’ budgets spent on R&D is minimal. Indeed, banning patenting actually protects the public investment into genome research which could become wasted if private companies stifle attempts to research into genes, on which they hold a patent."
con_3_3	Gene patents are perverse commercial exploitation of nature.	Gene patents are perverse commercial exploitation of nature. The commercialization of genes, through gene patents, creates a perverse incentive for the fast paced growth or commercial exploitation.
con_3_4	Gene Patents lead to Human Beings becoming merely properties.	Gene Patents lead to Human Beings becoming merely properties. Adversaries of Gene Patents argue that at sometime in future,advancement in Science may lead to Identical genes,leading to “Human beings” becoming merely puppets in the hands of Gene Patent holders.
con_3_5	Gene patents are on a road to duplicity.	Gene patents are on a road to duplicity. The Anti-Gene Patents flock states that Gene patents could lead to Duplicity of Human Beings,which could lead to people being replaced by other people(Exactly like them) without anyone finding out.This would give rise to the most covert type of crimes.
headline_4	Public health: Can gene patents maintain public health and safety?
pro_4_1	Many major biotech products have come from patented genes	 Many major biotech products have come from patented genes Julian Borger. "Rush to patent genes stalls cures for disease." Guardian.co.uk. December 15, 2009: "Products such as the cervical cancer vaccine, Gardasil, would never have been made available to the public were not its key components - including genes from the human papillomavirus - protected by patent law, said Obranovich."
con_4_1	Gene patents can harm patient care and pricing	 Gene patents can harm patient care and pricing Michael Crichton. "Patenting Life." New York Times (Op-Ed). February 13, 2007: "Canavan disease is an inherited disorder that affects children starting at 3 months [...] When the gene was identified in 1993, the families got the commitment of a New York hospital to offer a free test to anyone who wanted it. But the researcher’s employer, Miami Children’s Hospital Research Institute, patented the gene and refused to allow any health care provider to offer the test without paying a royalty."
con_4_2	Gene patents impair rapid study of spreading diseases	 Gene patents impair rapid study of spreading diseases Michael Crichton. "Patenting Life." New York Times (Op-Ed). February 13, 2007: "The plain truth is that gene patents aren’t benign and never will be. When SARS was spreading across the globe, medical researchers hesitated to study it — because of patent concerns. There is no clearer indication that gene patents block innovation, inhibit research and put us all at risk."
con_4_3	Gene patents harm efforts to tailor medicine to individuals	 Gene patents harm efforts to tailor medicine to individuals Michael Crichton. "Patenting Life." New York Times (Op-Ed). February 13, 2007: "Even your doctor can’t get relevant information. An asthma medication only works in certain patients. Yet its manufacturer has squelched efforts by others to develop genetic tests that would determine on whom it will and will not work. Such commercial considerations interfere with a great dream. For years we’ve been promised the coming era of personalized medicine — medicine suited to our particular body makeup. Gene patents destroy that dream."
con_4_4	Gene patents and bio-engineering may harm environment/society.	Gene patents and bio-engineering may harm environment/society. Research in genes may lead to the evolving of new, incurable diseases which will lead to further complications. Instead of advancement, it may actually harm society.
con_4_5	Gene patents and research could do harm to the environment.	Gene patents and research could do harm to the environment. The group opposing gene patents state that Nature is something best left to itself. Further experiments may lead to irreversible disasters.
headline_5	General: General statements in support and against gene patents
con_5_1	General statements and rulings against gene patents	General statements and rulings against gene patents Jonas Salk developed the vaccine for polio, and when asked who he felt should own the patent for the vaccine, he famously replied, "well, the people, I would say. There is no patent. Could you patent the sun?"[3] 
