title	Nuclear energy
question	Is nuclear energy justified and should it be expanded?
headline_1	Vs. renewables: Can nuclear energy co-exist succesfully with renewables?
pro_1_1	All carbon-free energy sources are needed, including nuclear	 All carbon-free energy sources are needed, including nuclear Pascal Zachary. "The case for nuclear power". SFGate. February 5, 2006: "At the same time we need to push wind, solar and other renewable technologies. We need to promote mass transit and curtail automobile use by sharply raising taxes on gasoline and restricting cars altogether from some areas. We need to campaign more vigorously for conservation. And, yes, we need nuclear power."
pro_1_2	Fossil fuels, not nuclear, are the real enemies of renewables.	Fossil fuels, not nuclear, are the real enemies of renewables. While it is true that nuclear energy does compete with renewables, it should be noted that fossil fuels are equally competitors. In so far as fossil fuels contribute to global warming and nuclear energy does not, therefore, fossil fuels are the real enemy of renewables.
pro_1_3	Nuclear energy competes, but so do renewables compete against each other.	Nuclear energy competes, but so do renewables compete against each other. While it is true that nuclear energy competes with renewable energy sources to provide cheap carbon-free electricity, so do all renewable energy sources compete against each other. Nuclear energy should not, therefore, be seen as doing anything wrong by competing.
con_1_1	Nuclear energy detracts resources from superior renewable energy	 Nuclear energy detracts resources from superior renewable energy "The case against nuclear power". Greenpeace. January 8, 2008: "going nuclear would squeeze out renewables. Any investment put in nuclear is investment taken away from renewable energy, the proven climate change solution. Nuclear energy distracts governments from taking the real global action necessary to tackle climate change and meet people’s energy needs."
con_1_2	Nuclear energy will compete with and squeeze out renewable energy.	Nuclear energy will compete with and squeeze out renewable energy. Nuclear energy will compete with new and up-and-coming renewable energy resources. If the government supports nuclear energy (a well established and easily scalable industry), newer and less mature renewable energy start-ups will have difficulty growing. Ultimately, therefore, the world will be left without sufficient renewable energy sources to effectively combat climate change in the long-run.
con_1_3	Nuclear power is often given favor at the expense of renewable power	Nuclear power is often given favor at the expense of renewable power.
headline_2	Climate change: Can nuclear energy help reduce emissions, fight climate change?
pro_2_1	Nuclear power dramatically cuts emissions and fights global warming	 Nuclear power dramatically cuts emissions and fights global warming Max Schulz. "Nuclear Power Is the Future". Wilson Quarterly. Fall, 2006 - "Roughly 700 million metric tons of CO2 emissions are avoided each year in the United States by generating electricity from nuclear power rather than some other source. According to the U.S. Department of Energy, that is nearly equivalent to the CO2 released from all U.S. passenger ­cars."
pro_2_2	Nuclear energy is the primary alternative to dirty coal	 Nuclear energy is the primary alternative to dirty coal Patrick Moore. "Going Nuclear A Green Makes the Case". Washington Post. April 16th, 2006: "Wind and solar power have their place, but because they are intermittent and unpredictable they simply can't replace big baseload plants such as coal, nuclear and hydroelectric. Natural gas, a fossil fuel, is too expensive already, and its price is too volatile to risk building big baseload plants. Given that hydroelectric resources are built pretty much to capacity, nuclear is, by elimination, the only viable substitute for coal. It's that simple."
pro_2_3	Nuclear energy has a carbon footprint, but it is negligible.	Nuclear energy has a carbon footprint, but it is negligible. Fossil fuels are not inherently required in mining Uranium and building nuclear plants. It just so happens that all modern machinery and vehicles involved in this process are powered by fossil fuels. Yet, these fossil-fuel-based machinery can be replaced by electric vehicles and machinery, possibly supplied by nuclear power plants themselves. In sum, nuclear energy is inherently clean. It is only the processes surrounding it that are dirty. This can and will change. 
con_2_1	Entire nuclear cycle may emit substantial greenhouse gases	 Entire nuclear cycle may emit substantial greenhouse gases "The case against nuclear power". Greenpeace. January 8, 2008: "nuclear plants threaten our ability to solve climate change. The nuclear industry would like us to believe that nuclear power offers a much better option for generating electricity without releasing significant amounts of greenhouse gases or toxic pollution. However, nuclear power plants are not much of an improvement over conventional coal-burning power plants despite claims that nuclear is the ‘clean air energy.’ Uranium mining, milling, leeching, plant construction and decommissioning all produce substantial amounts of GHG. Taking into account the carbon-equivalent emissions associated with the entire nuclear life cycle, nuclear plants contribute significantly to climate change and will contribute even more as stockpiles of highgrade uranium are depleted."
con_2_2	Nuclear energy undermines renewable solutions to climate change	 Nuclear energy undermines renewable solutions to climate change "The case against nuclear power". Greenpeace. January 8, 2008: "going nuclear would squeeze out renewables. Any investment put in nuclear is investment taken away from renewable energy, the proven climate change solution. Nuclear energy distracts governments from taking the real global action necessary to tackle climate change and meet people’s energy needs."
headline_3	Energy needs: Is nuclear needed to meet energy needs after fossil fuels?
pro_3_1	Nuclear is only clean energy source that can replace fossil fuels	 Nuclear is only clean energy source that can replace fossil fuels "The future is green, the future is nuclear." Times Online. October 4, 2009: "Professor David MacKay, the government’s chief scientific adviser on climate change, has said what many people have long believed. You cannot meet Britain’s future energy needs and reduced carbon emissions without a big expansion of nuclear power. [...] As we report today, he believes we should aim to be producing four times the amount of electricity from nuclear as now. Alternative energy sources such as wind, solar and wavepower will never provide more than a fraction of the country’s energy needs. Relying on gas, coal and oil, with an increasing proportion imported, does not square with Britain’s international climate commitments."
pro_3_2	Nuclear energy is needed to meet growing electricity demands	 Nuclear energy is needed to meet growing electricity demands Pascal Zachary. "The case for nuclear power". SFGate. February 5, 2006: "Electricity demand is rising -- some say by as much as 50 percent during the next 30 to 50 years. Demand might even increase more with the spread of electric cars. Without a crash program to expand nuclear power, America's new electricity needs will be satisfied chiefly by new coal-burning plants. Coal is a remarkably democratic resource, spread fairly evenly around the globe. Scores of new coal plants are planned for the United States, where they already generate about half of the nation's electricity. Many hundreds are likely to be constructed around the world before the end of the decade."
con_3_1	Renewables can meet all future energy needs, nuclear unnecessary	 Renewables can meet all future energy needs, nuclear unnecessary "The case against nuclear power". Greenpeace. January 8, 2008: "There are now dozens of studies, including many by government, engineering consultants, eminent academics and energy industry bodies all showing how this scale of electricity generation could be met through energy efficiency, cleaner use of fossil fuels, renewables and state of the art decentralised power stations like they have in Scandinavia.
con_3_2	Energy efficiency is more important than nuclear power	 Energy efficiency is more important than nuclear power. Improved building insulation and super efficient light bulbs and clothes dryers are more cost effective ways of cutting down on energy use and setting back global warming.  
con_3_3	Nuclear plants only produce electricity and can't replace oil and gas	 Nuclear plants only produce electricity and can't replace oil and gas "The case against nuclear power". Greenpeace. January 8, 2008: "Most of the gas we use is for heating and hot water and for industrial purposes. Nuclear power cannot replace that energy. And it’s a similar case for oil as it’s virtually all used for transport - nuclear power can’t take its place. [...] Indeed, 86% of our oil and gas consumption is for purposes other than producing electricity. So nuclear power, which can only generate electricity, is almost irrelevant."
con_3_4	Clean coal makes nuclear energy an unnecessary replacement.	"Clean coal" makes nuclear energy an unnecessary "replacement". "Clean coal" involves burning coal, but sequestering all or most of the subsequently emitted carbon. This makes nuclear energy, as a clean alternative to coal, unnecessary. 
headline_4	Safety/meltdown: Are nuclear plants safe from risk of nuclear meltdown/explosion?
pro_4_1	The risks of a catastrophic nuclear meltdown are very low	 The risks of a catastrophic nuclear meltdown are very low Modern nuclear safety measures and technologies effectively eliminate the risk of nuclear disasters.
pro_4_2	A 1986 Chernobyl accident would not occur today	 A 1986 Chernobyl accident would not occur today: Mark Brandly. "The Case for Nuclear Power". Virginia Viewpoint. October, 2001: "The Chernobyl plant explosion released radiation into the surrounding area. Such an explosion would have been contained in a U.S. plant. The Chernobyl plant lacked a fundamental safety structure found in western plants, a steel-reinforced concrete shell that completely encapsulates the nuclear reactor vessel. The Chernobyl tragedy exhibits the failure of government planners, not an inherent danger of nuclear power."
pro_4_3	Three Mile Island was actually a nuclear safety success	 Three Mile Island was actually a nuclear safety success Patrick Moore. "Going Nuclear A Green Makes the Case". Washington Post. April 16th, 2006: "Three Mile Island was in fact a success story: The concrete containment structure did just what it was designed to do -- prevent radiation from escaping into the environment. And although the reactor itself was crippled, there was no injury or death among nuclear workers or nearby residents."
pro_4_4	Nuclear energy has an exceptionally good safety record	 Nuclear energy has an exceptionally good safety record John McCarthy. "Nuclear Energy is the Most Certain Source." Formal.standard: "[Opposition argument:] Nuclear reactors are likely to have accidents with severe consequences for humanity. [Answer]: Chernobyl was the worst. There are now many hundreds of reactor years of experience, and Chernobyl was the only accident that injured the public. That's a good record for a source of energy."
pro_4_5	Nuclear energy has caused far fewer deaths than coal	 Nuclear energy has caused far fewer deaths than coal Patrick Moore, a prominent environmentalist and founding member of Greenpeace, "Going Nuclear A Green Makes the Case." Washington Post. April 16, 2006: "The multi-agency U.N. Chernobyl Forum reported last year that 56 deaths could be directly attributed to the accident, most of those from radiation or burns suffered while fighting the fire. Tragic as those deaths were, they pale in comparison to the more than 5,000 coal-mining deaths that occur worldwide every year."
pro_4_6	If nuclear power is so risky, why aren't existing plants shut down?	 If nuclear power is so risky, why aren't existing plants shut down? Many nuclear power plants exist today, and are being upgraded. If building new plants is as dangerous as critiques claim, wouldn't these existing plants be shut down? They are not shut-down because they have no safety problems to date.
pro_4_7	Nuclear-powered ships demonstrate safety of nuclear energy	 Nuclear-powered ships demonstrate safety of nuclear energy US Senator Pete Domenici writes in his book "A Brighter Tomorrow: Fulfilling the Promise of Nuclear Energ": "nuclear power plants roam the world daily without any significant problems. He says, "Nuclear power is safe and sure. Every week, one or two nuclear power plants dock at a major port in America or somewhere else in the world. And these power plants have been doing so for half a century now. ... No accidents of any kind have ever marred these dockings, no leaks have cleared blocks of cities; no emergencies have been declared."[1]
pro_4_8	Nuclear plants are made safer and safer by new technologies	 Nuclear plants are made safer and safer by new technologies While nuclear energy, like almost all energy sources, cannot be made 100% safe, it is constantly being made safer by new technologies and methods. 
con_4_1	Nuclear energy always carries risk of a major disaster	 Nuclear energy always carries risk of a major disaster "Pros and cons of nuclear power". Time for Change.org. Retrieved 1.23.08 - "High risks: Despite a generally high security standard, accidents can still happen. It is technically impossible to build a plant with 100% security. A small probability of failure will always last. The consequences of an accident would be absolutely devastating both for human being as for the nature (see here , here or here ). The more nuclear power plants (and nuclear waste storage shelters) are built, the higher is the probability of a disastrous failure somewhere in the world."
con_4_2	Any risk of another Chernobyl or Mile High is intolerable	 Any risk of another Chernobyl or Mile High is intolerable "The case against nuclear power". Greenpeace. January 8, 2008: "The Three mile Island and Chernobyl accidents should never be downplayed. The Chernobyl disaster is perhaps one of the worst in human history. Serious radioactive contamination spread over 150,000 square kilometers in Byelorussia, Ukraine and Russia. Radioactive clouds deposited radiation thousands of kilometers away. Hundreds of thousands people had to be evacuated, and millions more were left to live in areas that were dangerous to their health and lives. Moreover, scientific studies have shown that the full consequences of the Chernobyl disaster could top a quarter of a million cancer cases and nearly 100,000 fatal cancers. [...] Renewable energy, on the other hand, is the cleanest, safest and most reliable form of power generation." 
con_4_3	Taxpayers, not nuclear industry, assume risks of disaster	 Taxpayers, not nuclear industry, assume risks of disaster "6 reasons against nuclear energy". 1 million Europeans against nuclear power: "Although nuclear power is a hazardous business, the nuclear industry hardly has any financial liability. In the case of a nuclear disaster, most of the damages will be paid by society and not the companies' insurances. None of the various international conventions on nuclear damage currently in force are designed to make operators, or owners, of nuclear facilities liable for damage they cause."
con_4_4	Nuclear plants are being closed due to safety; this should continue.	Nuclear plants are being closed due to safety; this should continue. Some argue that nuclear energy is fine, or else nuclear plants would be shut down. However, they are being shut down. The following nuclear power plants have been shut down due to being unsafe or past their operating life in the US: Big Rock Point, Bonus, Dresdent-1, Elk Rivers, Enrico Fermi-1, Frt St. Vrain, GE Vallecitos, Haddam Neck, Hallam, Humboldt Bay, Indian Point-1, Lacrosse, Maine Yankee, Millstone-1, Pathfinder, Peach Bottom-1, Piqua, and many others. Some reactors were shut down much sooner than their design lifetime.
con_4_5	A nuclear disaster would be very costly economically	 A nuclear disaster would be very costly economically "The Case Against Nuclear Power". Public Citizen. Retrieved 1.24.08: "A serious nuclear accident could cost more than $600 billion in 2004 dollars[2] - taxpayers would be responsible for covering the vast majority of that sum." 
con_4_6	The cost of nuclear power causes cuts in safety measures	The cost of nuclear power causes cuts in safety measures.
headline_5	Sustainability: Is nuclear energy sustainable long-term? Is it renewable?
pro_5_1	Uranium is abundant and will last for hundreds of years	 Uranium is abundant and will last for hundreds of years Uranium supply is expected to last for over 200 years, which could be extended to 30,000 with modern technologies. "How long will the world's uranium supplies last?". Scientific American www.sciam.com. Retrieved 12.3.09 Extract: "According to the NEA, identified uranium resources total 5.5 million metric tons, and an additional 10.5 million metric tons remain undiscovered—a roughly 230-year supply at today's consumption rate in total. Further exploration and improvements in extraction technology are likely to at least double this estimate over time." New techniques could extend this to 30,000 years, even 60,000. 
pro_5_2	Nuclear energy is highly efficient	 Nuclear energy is highly efficient The efficient use of natural resources is a major criteria in determining the environmental friendliness of a source of energy. Nuclear energy extracts by far more energy from the natural resource Uranium than does the exploitation of oil or any other natural resource. It is the most efficient use of the Earth's resources. In fact, a gram of uranium can generate as much electricity as four tonnes of coal.
pro_5_3	Nuclear energy has a smaller surface-area footprint on the land.	Nuclear energy has a smaller surface-area footprint on the land. From a facility "footprint" standpoint, less space is required for a nuclear electric generating facility than for a comparable-capacity wind or solar plant. In fact, to equal the electrical output of a single 3.000 megawatt-electric nuclear generating station, it would take roughly 2.000 wind turbines or 140 square kilometres of solar panels.
pro_5_4	There are many novel sources of uranium	 There are many novel sources of uranium Given that the ash from coal-burning power stations "when coal is burned contains radioactive elements, notably uranium and thorium", it can be used as a future source of nuclear fuel. Moreover, the costs are brought down due to the fact that this uranium does not have to be mined. Additionally, uranium can be found even in seawater, and "the element can be sucked out of it by ion exchange." "Rising from the ashes", The Economist, April 2010
con_5_1	Uranium for nuclear energy is not a renewable resource	 Uranium for nuclear energy is not a renewable resource "Pros and cons of nuclear power". Time for Change.org. Retrieved 1.23.08 - "The energy source for nuclear energy is Uranium. Uranium is a scarce resource, its supply is estimated to last only for the next 30 to 60 years depending on the actual demand."
con_5_2	Nuclear power is efficient only once the uranium is in pellet form.	Nuclear power is efficient only once the uranium is in pellet form.  Uranium mines don't contain fuel pellets.  For uranium bearing rocks to even be called ore, they need to have at least 750 parts per million of uranium.  It takes a lot of processing to make a fuel pellet.  A large amount of uranium ore needs to be mined, milled, refined and enriched in order to produce that little tiny pellet that has the energy of many coal hopper cars.  Although it takes about 20 times more mining for coal as it does for the same amount of uranium, one still has to consider the environmental damage from the radiaton gases being released into the atmosphere, the groundwater contamination and the radioactive dust in the air.
con_5_3	Nuclear energy requires substantial water to cool the reactor	 Nuclear energy requires substantial water to cool the reactor Nuclear power plants are only 35% thermally efficient. This means for every kilowatt of electricity produced, almost twice as much waste heat is generated. Nuclear plants require significant quantities of water to remove the waste heat - usually into the environment. Such demands on water resources are impractical, harm agriculture, and general raise water utility prices.
headline_6	Economics: Is nuclear energy economical?
pro_6_1	Building nuclear plants requires less capital than dams.	Building nuclear plants requires less capital than dams. The construction of a nuclear power plant requires much less investment than a hydroelectric one. 
pro_6_2	Nuclear power requires a very small area.	Nuclear power requires a very small area. Besides, it can be built anywhere, provided that there is water around to cool the reactors. The fuel necessary to generate energy is uranium and the power originated from the nuclear fission of its atoms produces an incredible amount of energy.
pro_6_3	Concentration of power in nuclear is economical.	Concentration of power in nuclear is economical. As you have a massive concentration of power in very small quantities of uranium, the costs to produce energy decrease drastically.
pro_6_4	Nuclear power is relatively inexpensive	 Nuclear power is relatively inexpensive Patrick Moore. "Going Nuclear A Green Makes the Case". Washington Post. April 16th, 2006: "[Claim] Nuclear energy is expensive. [Counter:] It is in fact one of the least expensive energy sources. In 2004, the average cost of producing nuclear energy in the United States was less than two cents per kilowatt-hour, comparable with coal and hydroelectric. Advances in technology will bring the cost down further in the future."
pro_6_5	Nuclear energy internationally demonstrates its viability	 Nuclear energy internationally demonstrates its viability John McCarthy. "Nuclear Energy is the Most Certain Source." Formal.standard: "Nuclear energy is uneconomical compared to other sources. I don't really have to answer this for the primary objective of showing the sustainability of progress, because I need only show that it is economical enough to sustain progress. It seems to me that the French, Japanese and American experience shows this. As to its relative economy, many countries are expanding and initiating programs of nuclear energy. China and Indonesia are recent examples." [And, why would nuclear energy be expanding internationally if it wasn't inherently economical?]. 
pro_6_6	Nuclear energy economies of scale are improving	 Nuclear energy economies of scale are improving Pascal Zachary. "The case for nuclear power". SFGate. February 5, 2006: "In recent years, several electric utilities have emerged as nuclear-power specialists, reaping economies of scale and building expertise that enables them to run safer, more secure operations. [...] PG&E was typical, building only a single nuclear plant (with two reactors) at Diablo Canyon. This on-off tendency made it more difficult and costly for utilities to gain the expertise in nuclear power or to run plants properly."
pro_6_7	Nuclear energy costs are unfairly increased by regulations and politics	 Nuclear energy costs are unfairly increased by regulations and politics Mark Brandly. "The Case for Nuclear Power". Virginia Viewpoint. October, 2001: "On the economic side, while costs are competitive in existing nuclear plants, government regulations, political delays, and public relations problems increase those costs substantially, making new plants less economically feasible."
pro_6_8	Nuclear energy needed to prevent future power outages	 Nuclear energy needed to prevent future power outages Christine Todd Whitman. "The case in favor of nuclear power." Business Week. September 12, 2007: "The cost of failing to meet these needs will be steep. The global economy relies on world-class power grids to trade stocks, to communicate instantly, and to buy and sell around the clock. If anything points to the frustrating effect that a failed power grid can have on profits, it's the San Francisco power outage that took down Silicon Valley enterprises like Craigslist and Netflix (NFLX ) in July. Although it only cost them two hours of online business, that minor power blip illustrates how a lack of electricity [without sufficient nuclear power in the future] can render even a tech-savvy company impotent." 
con_6_1	Nuclear energy is too costly to be competitive	 Nuclear energy is too costly to be competitive Mark Hertsgaard. "The True Costs of Nuclear Power". Mother Earth News. April/May 2006: "The best case against nuclear power as a global warming remedy begins with the fact that nuclear-generated electricity is very expensive. Despite more than $150 billion in federal subsides over the past 60 years (roughly 30 times more than solar, wind and other renewable energy sources have received), nuclear power still costs substantially more than electricity made from wind, coal, oil or natural gas. This is mainly due to the cost of borrowing money for the decade or more it takes to get a nuclear plant up and running."
con_6_2	Building nuclear power plants takes too long	 Building nuclear power plants takes too long It can take between 20 to 30 years to move from the planning to the opening of a nuclear reactor.
con_6_3	Nuclear plant construction runs over-time and over-budget	 Nuclear plant construction runs over-time and over-budget "The case against nuclear power". Greenpeace. January 8, 2008 - "No nuclear power station anywhere in the world has ever been built on time and on budget with the average reactor costing three times as much and twice as long to build. [...] Worldwide, the cost of building a nuclear reactor is consistently two to three times higher than the nuclear industry estimates. In India, the country with the most recent experience of nuclear reactor construction, completion costs for the last 10 reactors have, on average, been 300% over budget. In Finland, the construction of a new reactor is already €1.5 billion over budget."
con_6_4	Nuclear energy relies too heavily on subsidies/taxpayers	 Nuclear energy relies too heavily on subsidies/taxpayers "The Case Against Nuclear Power". Public Citizen. January 24, 2008: "Despite its promise more than 50 years ago of energy “too cheap to meter,” the nuclear power industry continues to be dependent on taxpayer handouts to survive. Since its inception in 1948, this industry has received tens of billions of dollars in federal subsidies but remains unable to compete economically on its own.[1]  On August 8, 2005, President Bush signed an energy bill that included over $13 billion in tax breaks and subsidies, as well as other incentives, for the nuclear industry."
con_6_5	Nuclear waste disposal is costly	 Nuclear waste disposal is costly Digging massive holes in mountains, transporting nuclear waste to these designated waste areas, and monitoring the waste areas for radiation leakages are all significant costs associated with nuclear energy.
con_6_6	Decommissioning nuclear power plants is expensive	 Decommissioning nuclear power plants is expensive "The case against nuclear power". Greenpeace. January 8, 2008: "Decommissioning nuclear plants also cost a lot of money. In a recent estimate, the UK government calculated that cleaning up the country’s ageing nuclear facilities will exceed 73 billion pounds (USD 100 billion). On top of this, the cost of building a nuclear waste dump costs around USD 29 billion."
con_6_7	Centralized nuclear energy production is inefficient.	Centralized nuclear energy production is inefficient. Whenever electricity is transferred across wires, some of its electrical current is lost. The longer the distance, the more electricity loss occurs. Because there are few nuclear power plants, the average distance that the produced electricity has to travel is quite long. The result is an inefficient loss of electrical energy. More decentralized forms of renewable energy are superior. 
con_6_8	The nuclear energy industry depends on government subsidies	The nuclear energy industry depends on government subsidies.
headline_7	Waste: Can nuclear waste be dealt with adequately?
pro_7_1	Nuclear energy waste can be recycled	 Nuclear energy "waste" can be recycled Patrick Moore. "Going Nuclear A Green Makes the Case". Washington Post. April 16th, 2006: "[Claim:] Nuclear waste will be dangerous for thousands of years. [Response:] Within 40 years, used fuel has less than one-thousandth of the radioactivity it had when it was removed from the reactor. And it is incorrect to call it waste, because 95 percent of the potential energy is still contained in the used fuel after the first cycle. Now that the United States has removed the ban on recycling used fuel, it will be possible to use that energy and to greatly reduce the amount of waste that needs treatment and disposal. Last month, Japan joined France, Britain and Russia in the nuclear-fuel-recycling business. The United States will not be far behind."
pro_7_2	Nuclear waste is minimal, solid, and manageable	 Nuclear waste is minimal, solid, and manageable James Lovelock, Honorary Visiting Fellow, Green College, Oxford University. "Nuclear Energy: the safe choice for now." July 2005: "An outstanding advantage of nuclear over fossil fuel energy is how easy it is to deal with the waste it produces. Fossil fuel burning produces twenty seven thousand million tons of carbon dioxide yearly. This is enough if solidified to make a mountain nearly two kilometres high and with a base ten kilometres in circumference. The same quantity of energy if it came from nuclear reactions would make fourteen thousand tons of high level waste. A quantity that occupies a sixteen metre sided cube. The carbon dioxide waste is invisible but so deadly that if its emissions go unchecked it will kill nearly everyone. The nuclear waste buried in pits at the production sites is no threat to Gaia and dangerous only to those foolish enough to expose themselves to its radiation."
pro_7_3	Nuclear waste radioactivity dissipates over time.	Nuclear waste radioactivity dissipates over time. Although the spent fuel is highly radioactive at the moment it is brought out of the reactor, this same characteristic means that it rapidly loses radioactivity. It has a limited time for which it is a significant threat.
pro_7_4	Technologies for breaking-down radioactive waste are being developed.	Technologies for breaking-down radioactive waste are being developed. A plasma torch, hotter than the surface of the sun works on the principle of breaking down dangerous compounds to safer, basic elements. This is being developed with the prospect of being used to break-down radioactive nuclear waste.
pro_7_5	Waste heat from nuclear reactors can be used	 Waste heat from nuclear reactors can be used "How nuclear power could fertilise fields." New Scientist. September 23, 2009: "WHO would have thought that nuclear power could be used to make fertiliser? It will if a new direction in US research proves a success. The Department of Energy (DOE) is expanding its development of nuclear reactors that churn out large amounts of waste heat, which could be used in a number of other industries. [...] On 18 September, the DOE announced that its Next Generation Nuclear Plant project will receive a $40 million boost in funding. The gas-cooled reactors involved will run at temperatures in excess of 800 °C, more than twice that of existing light water reactors. The heat is valuable for industrial processes that use thermal chemical reactions, such as fertiliser production and hydrogen generation, says Tom O'Connor of the DOE."
pro_7_6	Nuclear waste radiation no worse than natural radiation	 Nuclear waste radiation no worse than natural radiation William Tucker. "No Such Thing as Nuclear Waste." Wall Street Journal. March 13, 2009: "There is no such thing as nuclear waste. Ninety-five percent of a spent fuel rod is plain old U-238, the nonfissionable variety that exists in granite tabletops, stone buildings and the coal burned in coal plants to generate electricity. Uranium-238 is 1% of the earth's crust. It could be put right back in the ground where it came from."
pro_7_7	Radiation around nuclear plants is well within safe limits	 Radiation around nuclear plants is well within safe limits Mark Brandly. "The Case for Nuclear Power". Virginia Viewpoint. October, 2001: "Nuclear plants release no gaseous pollutants and the amount of radioactivity is miniscule. Those living near a nuclear plant face less radioactivity per capita than is encountered in many normal daily activities."
con_7_1	Nuclear energy produces dangerous radioactive waste	 Nuclear energy produces dangerous radioactive waste. "The Case Against Nuclear Power". Public Citizen. Retrieved 1.24.08: "Nuclear power is not a clean energy source. In fact, it produces both low and high-level radioactive waste that remains dangerous for several hundred thousand years. Generated throughout all parts of the fuel cycle, this waste poses a serious danger to human health. Currently, over 2,000 metric tons of high-level radioactive waste and 12 million cubic feet of low level radioactive waste are produced annually by the 103 operating reactors in the United States.4 No country in the world has found a solution for this waste. Building new nuclear plants would mean the production of much more of this dangerous waste with no where for it to go."
con_7_2	Reprocessing nuclear waste is not a viable environmental solution.	Reprocessing nuclear waste is not a viable environmental solution. Nuclear waste is not being reprocessed except in a very few countries.  There is no closed cycle for it to be framed as "Recycling".  It is cheaper to mine new Uranium than reprocess spent Uranium. Second, spent Uranium has to be disposed of and dealt with at one point even if it is reprocessed and the radioactivity of it remains.
con_7_3	Burying nuclear waste is an environmental and health risk	 Burying nuclear waste is an environmental and health risk "The Case Against Nuclear Power". Public Citizen. Retrieved 1.24.08: "Yucca Mountain. The Yucca Mountain project continues to be mired in controversy and may very well never open. Numerous unresolved problems remain with the geologic and hydrologic suitability of the proposed site, and serious questions have been raised about its ability to contain highly radioactive waste for the time required."
con_7_4	Burying nuclear waste creates risks for future generations.	Burying nuclear waste creates risks for future generations. Whenever nuclear waste is buried, risks are created for future generations, as there is no 100% reliable way to store radioactive materials.
con_7_5	Transporting nuclear waste is a public safety concern	 Transporting nuclear waste is a public safety concern - Since the storage of nuclear waste often takes place in designated areas within a large territory, it becomes necessary to transport nuclear waste long distances to these locations. This presents risks to the populations that exist on the route to these waste areas.
con_7_6	Nuclear waste disposal is costly	 Nuclear waste disposal is costly Digging massive holes in mountains, transporting nuclear waste to these designated waste areas, and monitoring the waste areas for radiation leakages are all significant costs associated with nuclear energy.
con_7_7	Mining uranium is very dangerous for workers	 Mining uranium is very dangerous for workers "The Case Against Nuclear Power". Public Citizen. January 24, 2008: "Uranium is mined by physically removing uranium ore, or by extracting the uranium in a newer process known as in situ leaching. Conventional mining has caused dust and radon inhalation for workers – resulting in high rates of lung cancer and other respiratory diseases – and both types of mining have caused serious contamination of groundwater."
headline_8	Energy security: Does nuclear energy improve energy security nationally, internationally?
pro_8_1	Nuclear power will help lower oil dependencies and risks.	Nuclear power will help lower oil dependencies and risks. Nuclear energy is one of the most viable alternatives to oil, particularly because it is capable of supplying such massive amounts of energy. According to a Stanford study, fast breeder reactors (that convert Uranium into other nuclear fuels while generating energy) have the potential to generate energy for billions of years, thus they make nuclear energy sustainable while lowering our dependency on oil, thus increasing our energy security.
pro_8_2	Nuclear energy can help supply the poor world with needed electricity	 Nuclear energy can help supply the poor world with needed electricity The massive increase in demand for electricity expected in the 21st century can only be met by an energy resource capable of supply a massive amount of electricity. Coal is an option, but it is highly destructive to air quality and the global environment. Nuclear energy is really the only other massively abundant, massively productive source of electricity capable of meeting these rising demands.
con_8_1	Nuclear energy is not applicable and accessible globally	 Nuclear energy is not applicable and accessible globally "The case against nuclear power". Greenpeace. January 8, 2008: "Nuclear is not an available power source in the Philippines, and, given the DOE’s power forecasts, a nuclear plant will be a poor choice to meet power demand because it takes too long to build. Being modular and decentralized by nature, new renewable energy can be expanded and built much more rapidly (and operated more efficiently given the country's archipelagic character) than nuclear and conventional polluting sources. [...] Uranium to fuel the BNPP will have to be imported as there are no uranium deposits in the Philippines, so the country’s dependence on foreign fuel is increased. Uranium is further subject to large price hikes since the resource is only available to a few countries. In fact, 58% of global uranium supplies come from only three countries and its processing as fuel can only be carried out in six countries. Further, at current global nuclear capacity, known uranium resources will last only 34 years."
headline_9	Terrorist threat: Is the terrorist threat to nuclear facilities non-existent/manageable?
pro_9_1	Nuclear facilities are designed to withstand terrorists attacks	 Nuclear facilities are designed to withstand terrorists attacks Patrick Moore. "Going Nuclear A Green Makes the Case". Washington Post. April 16th, 2006: "Nuclear reactors are vulnerable to terrorist attack. The six-feet-thick reinforced concrete containment vessel protects the contents from the outside as well as the inside. And even if a jumbo jet did crash into a reactor and breach the containment, the reactor would not explode. There are many types of facilities that are far more vulnerable, including liquid natural gas plants, chemical plants and numerous political targets."
pro_9_2	Nuclear facilities are less vulnerable to terrorists than other targets	 Nuclear facilities are less vulnerable to terrorists than other targets Patrick Moore, a prominent environmentalist and founding member of Greenpeace. "Going Nuclear A Green Makes the Case". Washington Post. April 16th, 2006 - "There are many types of facilities that are far more vulnerable [than nuclear facilities], including liquid natural gas plants, chemical plants and numerous political targets."
con_9_1	A terrorist strike on a nuclear facility could be devastating	 A terrorist strike on a nuclear facility could be devastating "Nuclear’s Fatal Flaws: Security". Public Citizen. Retrieved 1.24.08: "The 9/11 Commission noted in June 2004 that al Qaeda’s original plan for September 11 was to hijack 10 airplanes and crash two of them into nuclear plants.[1]  A successful attack would release 'large quantities of radioactive materials to the environment.'[2]  A September 2004 study by Dr. Ed Lyman of the Union of Concerned Scientists, using the NRC’s own analysis method, found that a worst-case accident or attack at the Indian Point nuclear plant 35 miles north of New York City could cause up to 43,700 immediate fatalities and up to 518,000 long-term cancer deaths.  Such a release could cost up to $2.1 trillion, and would force the permanent relocation of 11.1 million people."
con_9_2	Terrorists can target spent nuclear fuel pools outside facilities	 Terrorists can target spent nuclear fuel pools outside facilities Spent fuel pools are often unprotected, outside of a nuclear facilities walls. These are vulnerabilities to terrorist attacks. 
con_9_3	Nuclear power plants are vulnerable to terrorist attacks	Nuclear power plants are vulnerable to terrorist attacks. Not only that nuclear power plants are preferred targets, but also they are not designed to withstand a terrorist attack.
headline_10	Proliferation: Is the risk of nuclear energy being used for weapons tolerable?
pro_10_1	Nuclear energy should not be banned on mere risk of weapons-use	 Nuclear energy should not be banned on mere risk of weapons-use Patrick Moore. "Going Nuclear A Green Makes the Case". Washington Post. April 16th, 2006: "Nuclear fuel can be diverted to make nuclear weapons. This is the most serious issue associated with nuclear energy and the most difficult to address, as the example of Iran shows. But just because nuclear technology can be put to evil purposes is not an argument to ban its use. [...] The only practical approach to the issue of nuclear weapons proliferation is to put it higher on the international agenda and to use diplomacy and, where necessary, force to prevent countries or terrorists from using nuclear materials for destructive ends."
pro_10_2	New nuclear reprocessing systems reduce risks of weapons-use	 New nuclear reprocessing systems reduce risks of weapons-use Reprocessing systems can be designed to make it more difficult to re-direct nuclear fuel into weapons-grade nuclear materials.
pro_10_3	Diplomacy and force should be used to counter proliferation risks of nuclear energy	 Diplomacy and force should be used to counter proliferation risks of nuclear energy It is the job of leaders and diplomats to reduce the risk of the nefarious use of any technology. Nuclear technologies are no exception.
pro_10_4	Nuclear energy can reduce materials available for weapons-use.	Nuclear energy can reduce materials available for weapons-use. The Megatons-to-Megawatts program destroyed weapons material by using it to create electricity in power stations across the US. Far from increasing proliferation, nuclear energy is helping to reduce nuclear weapons quantities in a safe and useful manner.
con_10_1	Nuclear energy risks being diverted to nuclear weapons development	 Nuclear energy risks being diverted to nuclear weapons development  &hearts; "Nuclear's Fatal Flaws: Proliferation." Public Citizen. January 24, 2008: "Sensitive nuclear technology such as uranium enrichment and spent nuclear fuel reprocessing are ostensibly employed to create fuel in power reactors, they may be easily adjusted or redirected to produce weapons-grade fissile material. Moreover, power reactors themselves produce plutonium, which may be used in bombs. In practice, there is no way to segregate nuclear technologies employed for “peaceful” purposes from technologies that may be employed in weapons—the former may be, and have been, transformed into the latter."
con_10_2	The benefits of nuclear energy are outweighed by weapons-use risks	 The benefits of nuclear energy are outweighed by weapons-use risks Michael Levi, Council on Foreign Relations Fellow for Science and Technology. "Wasted Energy". CFR.org. April 18th, 2006 - "Moore turns to the question of whether nuclear power can be diverted to make nuclear weapons, and to his credit calls it 'the most serious issue associated with nuclear energy.' But he then proceeds to treat it unseriously. He notes that 'If we banned everything that can be used to kill people, we would never have harnessed fire.' That’s true, but the question here isn’t whether nuclear power is dangerous; it’s whether the dangers associated with it outweigh the benefits it entails. Simply because fire had greater potential for good than harm does not mean that the same is true for nuclear power."
headline_11	Public opinion: Where does public opinion stand on this issue?
pro_11_1	Populations surrounding nuclear power plants approve of them	 Populations surrounding nuclear power plants approve of them Patrick Moore. "Going Nuclear A Green Makes the Case". Washington Post. April 16th, 2006: "Eighty percent of the people living within 10 miles of these plants approve of them (that's not including the nuclear workers). Although I don't live near a nuclear plant, I am now squarely in their camp."
pro_11_2	Fears over nuclear energy are irrational	 Fears over nuclear energy are irrational James Lovelock, doyen of green scientists and known for his Gaia hypothesis, declared nuclear power was the only green solution: "Opposition to nuclear energy is based on irrational fear fed by Hollywood-style fiction, the green lobbies and the media. These fears are unjustified and nuclear energy from its start in 1952 has proved to be the safest of all energy sources."[2]
pro_11_3	Fear toward nuclear energy is fed by misinformation	 Fear toward nuclear energy is fed by misinformation Nuclear Power Now .org: "Unfortunately, the voting public has been victimized by forty years of misinformation regarding the safety of nuclear power. The graphs on nuclear energy showing it to be safe, economical, and in our national interest are countered by anti-nuclear activists using fear tactics to frighten the electorate into inaction."
con_11_1	Ill-informed public opinion the main obstacle for nuclear energy.	Ill-informed public opinion the main obstacle for nuclear energy. The majority of the public consider nuclear power plants to be unsafe. They really are very safe, but the public opinion in countries currently not using nuclear power is predominantly against nuclear energy. The public opinion really is the only factor stopping nuclear energy coming into place globally.
headline_12	General: General statements in support and against nuclear energy.
pro_12_1	Nuclear energy pros outweigh cons	 Nuclear energy pros outweigh cons Christine Todd Whitman. "The case in favor of nuclear power." Business Week. September 12, 2007: "Here's the reality: The U.S. needs more energy, and we need to get it without further harming our environment. Everything is a trade-off. Nothing is free, and nuclear plants are not cheap to build (although costs should drop as we build more of them)." 
pro_12_2	General statements of support for nuclear energy	 General statements of support for nuclear energy Famous economist Jeffrey Sachs, distinguished professor of sustainability from Columbia University, has endorsed nuclear energy as the pivotal clean technology. 
con_12_1	Nuclear energy has a limited supply and is far inferior to solar power.	Nuclear energy has a limited supply and is far inferior to solar power. Solar power is more renewable and cleaner. Its supply is endless, unlike that of nuclear energy. Similarly, wind power generates no waste and can sustain our planet for millenia to come. Nuclear power is not the answer. When there are so many cheaper, safer, cleaner and more sustainable alternatives, why the debate? 
