title	Health insurance mandates
question	Should govts mandate that people buy private health insurance, or face penalties?
headline_1	Individual rights: Are insurance mandates consistent with individual rights?
pro_1_1	Mandates counteract insurers denying coverage to the unhealthy	 Mandates counteract insurers denying coverage to the unhealthy Linda J. Blumberg, Ph.D., and John Holahan, Ph.D. "insurers create [... exclusion periods for coverage of preexisting conditions, benefit riders that permanently exclude particular types of care, higher premium rates or cost-sharing requirements for people with health problems, and outright denials of coverage. [...] If we required that every person obtain at least a minimum package of health insurance benefits — that is, issued a so-called individual mandate — we would eliminate adverse selection, and these barriers would become unnecessary and, in fact, indefensible." 
pro_1_2	Uninsured increase costs for all; mandates are appropriate.	Uninsured increase costs for all; mandates are appropriate. The uninsured do two things that add to costs. First, when they do go to the hospital, they go to the emergency room, which is paid for by the taxpayers in most cases. Second, by not contributing money to the general risk pool, the insured have a smaller pool of resources to draw on when they get sick, meaning that insurance companies have to increase premiums.
pro_1_3	Uninsured degrade care for all; mandates appropriate	 Uninsured degrade care for all; mandates appropriate Kyle B. Jones. "Mandates necessary for reform, cost control." The Salt Lake Tribune. October 2, 2009: "When a significant number of patients is unable to pay for care, such as the 20 percent of Americans currently in that situation, not only do costs increase for everyone but quality of care decreases, as limited human and material resources are drained to support those unable to financially contribute to the system. [...] Evidence strongly supports that these issues already significantly affect all of us, directly or indirectly. When someone without insurance gets sick, we all get to pay the price." 
pro_1_4	Mandates limit freedoms of few to protect freedoms of many	 Mandates limit freedoms of few to protect freedoms of many Kyle B. Jones. "Mandates necessary for reform, cost control." The Salt Lake Tribune. October 2, 2008: "While some complain about the loss of personal freedoms for a few, avoiding mandates would lead to further unnecessary yet significant financial burdens for everyone."
con_1_1	Mandatory insurance violates right of individual judgement	 Mandatory insurance violates right of individual judgement Paul Hsieh. "Mandatory Health Insurance: Wrong for Massachusetts, Wrong for America". The Objective Standard. Fall 2008: "Mandatory insurance violates the rights of insurers and individuals to act on their own judgment. [...] A right is a legitimate freedom of action—a freedom of action necessary for the maintenance and furtherance of human life. The right to act on one’s judgment—which means, the right to act on one’s basic means of survival—is one’s basic right. Mandatory insurance violates this right by forcing insurers to sell and customers to purchase insurance on terms and prices dictated not by their own judgment, but by government decree, thus destroying the very conditions that make insurance a value. This is what has caused the disastrous economic consequences in Massachusetts."
con_1_2	Mandatory insurance violates right to engage in contracts	 Mandatory insurance violates right to engage in contracts Paul Hsieh. "Mandatory Health Insurance: Wrong for Massachusetts, Wrong for America". The Objective Standard. Fall 2008: "Mandatory insurance violates individual rights in several ways. First, it forbids individuals and insurers from contracting voluntarily in a free market. In Massachusetts, individuals must choose between one of only a few government-approved plans.35 The terms of these state plans were not determined by patients and insurers negotiating in a free market. Instead, major elements, such as the prices of the plans and details of prescription drug coverage, were decided by the ten members of the government-appointed “Connector” board after ferocious lobbying from pressure groups including “business, labor, medical professionals and needy patients.”36 This is a classic example of what philosopher Ayn Rand called the 'politics of pull.'"
headline_2	Free-riders: Will mandates help solve problem of free-riders?
pro_2_1	Mandates protect taxpayers from burden of uninsured	 Mandates protect taxpayers from burden of uninsured Stuart M. Butler, an adjunct professor in public policy at Georgetown University and the vice president for domestic policy at the Heritage Foundation, wrote on the New York Times' Room For Debate in June of 2009: "A mandate to buy what? In automobile insurance it’s typically to protect other people against the damage the driver might do to them. The parallel in health is a mandate for me to buy insurance to cover emergency and catastrophic costs that you (taxpayers and insured people) would be stuck with if I can’t pay my hospital bill."
con_2_1	Uninsured free-riders are no big problem; mandates unnecessary	 Uninsured free-riders are no big problem; mandates unnecessary  Glen Whitman. "Hazards of the Individual Health Care Mandate." CATO. September/October 2007: "how big is the free-rider problem, really? First, we should note that not all free riders are uninsured. In fact, people with insurance consume almost a third of uncompensated care. Second, not all care received by the uninsured is paid for by others. Analysts at the Urban Institute found that the uninsured pay more than 25 percent of their health expenditures out of pocket. [...] So how much uncompensated care is received by the uninsured? The same study puts the number at about $35 billion a year in 2001, or only 2.8 percent of total health care expenditures for that year. In other words, even if the individual mandate works exactly as planned, it will affect at best a mere 3 percent of health care expenditures."
headline_3	Universal care: Is mandatory insurance a good means to universal care?
pro_3_1	Mandates are best way to get to universal coverage	 Mandates are best way to get to universal coverage Bradley Herring, a health economist at Johns Hopkins University: "Without an individual mandate, you're never going to get to universal coverage."
pro_3_2	General statements in favor of health insurance mandates	 General statements in favor of health insurance mandates Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus, a Democrat who is helping write healthcare legislation, in a March 2009 speech to the Center for American Progress think tank said, "An individual obligation to get health coverage is essential."[2]
con_3_1	Mandates will not produce universal care as many will not comply	 Mandates will not produce universal care as many will not comply Glen Whitman. "Hazards of the Individual Health Care Mandate." CATO. September/October 2007: "The Problem of Noncompliance [...] of course, the mandate will not work exactly as planned. As anyone who's ever driven over 55 mph knows, mandating something is not the same as making it happen. Realistically, some individuals will not comply. [...] Forty-seven states currently require drivers to purchase liability auto insurance. Do 100 percent of drivers in those states have insurance? No. For states with an auto insurance mandate, the median percentage of drivers who are uninsured is 12 percent." 
con_3_2	Premise of insurance mandates, that health care is a right, is false	 Premise of insurance mandates, that health care is a right, is false Many argue that health care is a right, and thus that universal health care is a necessary provision. This is then used to justify mandates as a means to universal care. But, health care is not a right, as only things that could be consider "natural", "innate", or "God-given" can be considered rights, and health care does not qualify as such.
headline_4	The struggling? Is a mandate helpful or harmful to the financially struggling?
pro_4_1	Mandatory insurance can be subsidized for the struggling	 Mandatory insurance can be subsidized for the struggling Linda J. Blumberg, Ph.D., and John Holahan, Ph.D. "The Individual Mandate — An Affordable and Fair Approach to Achieving Universal Coverage." The New England Journal of Medicine. July 2, 2009: "Although the shortcomings of the system for the high-cost population are many and well documented, most people who are excluded from the current health insurance system have low incomes. Two thirds of the uninsured have incomes below 200% of the federal poverty level (100% being $10,830 for an individual and $22,050 for a family of four in 2009).2 With the average employer premium today running approximately $4,800 for an individual and $13,300 for a family (with estimates based on average premiums for 2006 with adjustment for inflation3), such an expense would amount to 22 to 30% of income for those at 200% of the poverty level — much too high to be considered affordable. For people with lower incomes, such expenses would be even more crushing. As a consequence, the inclusion of everyone in the health insurance system will require substantial government subsidies to Americans with modest incomes. Without such assistance, a requirement to participate in coverage would be unfair and unjustifiable. A requirement for all to enroll in coverage must therefore carry with it a government commitment to make adequate coverage affordable at all income levels."
pro_4_2	The struggling uninsured can be exempted from penalties.	The struggling uninsured can be exempted from penalties. The financially struggling, those beneath a certain income level, can be exempted from penalties for lacking health insurance. 
pro_4_3	The struggling can be exempted from insurance mandate.	The struggling can be exempted from insurance mandate. Some individuals in certain exceptional cases can also be exempted from the requirement to obtain health insurance. This, at a minimum, is an option that can be used to balance certain considerations, which may include the expense of subsidizing insurance for poor individuals.
con_4_1	Punishing uninsured further harms struggling	 Punishing uninsured further harms struggling Grace-Marie Turner. "Should the United States Mandate Health Insurance...or Not?". MedScape. April 4, 2008: "An individual mandate would inject much more government control into our health sector and would require onerous enforcement provisions, like garnishing people's wages.[4,5] Americans are struggling to afford decent housing, child care, and other necessities. Requiring them to buy health insurance before we address its high costs would further burden the workers and families we're trying to help."
con_4_2	Mandate deters uninsured from going to hospital, receiving penalty	 Mandate deters uninsured from going to hospital, receiving penalty "Mandatory health insurance?" A Dragon in Sheep's Clothing. July 3rd, 2009: "If they will be fined when the healthcare system learns they are uninsured, why would anyone who cannot afford health insurance ever go to a doctor? So really, the problem of folks without health insurance is not fixed by a mandate."
con_4_3	Mandating health insurance is socially regressive	 Mandating health insurance is socially regressive Marcia Angel. "Should health insurance be mandatory". New York Times. June 4, 2009: "A mandate is also extremely regressive. In Massachusetts, mandated insurance and co-payments can amount to nearly a third of income. Income taxes apportion the costs of public services more fairly, and I see no reason not to adopt that approach in paying for health care. To be sure, President Obama has said he would exempt people from the mandate who couldn’t afford to purchase their own health insurance. But aren’t these precisely the people most in need of it? Massachusetts has exempted 62,000 people from the mandate for that reason."
headline_5	Economics: Do mandates reduce or increase costs/price of insurance?
pro_5_1	Mandatory health insurance ensures appropriate pooling of risk	 Mandatory health insurance ensures appropriate pooling of risk Keith Girard. "Health Care: The Case for Mandatory Universal Health Insurance." All Business. April 2 2009: "'Insurance, in its simplest form, works by pooling risks: many pay a premium up front, and then those who face a bad outcome (getting sick, being in a car accident, having their home burn down) get paid out of those collected premiums,' explained Katherine Baicker, a professor of health economics at Harvard’s School of Public Health. [...] Insurance works because not everyone will fall sick at the same time, so it is possible to make payments to those who do fall sick even though their care costs more than their premium, by tapping the pooled insurance premiums. Thus, the system is undermined by the uninsured, both healthy and unhealthy. [...] when healthy individuals choose to go uninsured, the model breaks down as well, because they are limiting the pool of reserves available for those who are sick. If they wait until they are sick to get insurance, they defeat the purpose of insurance, too. That’s why Massachusetts, one of the states leading health care reform efforts, requires universal participation in its health program."
pro_5_2	W/o mandates insurers focus on risk instead of costs	 W/o mandates insurers focus on risk instead of costs Linda J. Blumberg, Ph.D., and John Holahan, Ph.D. "The Individual Mandate — An Affordable and Fair Approach to Achieving Universal Coverage." The New England Journal of Medicine. July 2, 2009: "the voluntary insurance system has also distracted insurers from developing incentives and mechanisms for efficiently managing health care costs. Because total health care expenditures are so concentrated — the most expensive 5% of the population accounts for half of aggregate health care spending, whereas the bottom 50% of spenders account for only 3%1 — the gains to insurers of avoiding the sick outweigh any possible gains from managing their care. As a consequence, resources have been devoted to such avoidance at a direct cost to effective care management. National health care costs continue to grow at rates well above inflation, but there has been precious little incentive for the private sector to devote its innovative energies to controlling them. And identifying ways to provide care more effectively and efficiently to people with serious medical needs is the only path to achieving the savings we all seek, since it is on such care that the bulk of the system's dollars are spent."
pro_5_3	Mandates include young and healthy, spread risk and costs	 Mandates include young and healthy, spread risk and costs Ceci Connolly. "Like Car Insurance, Health Coverage May Be Mandated." Washington Post. July 22, 2009: "Bringing everyone into the insurance pool -- particularly young, healthy customers -- spreads the risk and lowers overall costs. 'That will make it more affordable for everyone,' Bradley Herring, a health economist at Johns Hopkins University."
con_5_1	Insurance mandates require costly government subsidies	 Insurance mandates require costly government subsidies Paul Hsieh. "Mandatory Health Insurance: Wrong for Massachusetts, Wrong for America". The Objective Standard. Fall 2008: "Costs to the state government have skyrocketed and are projected to run hundreds of millions of dollars over budget. Because the mandated insurance is so expensive, the government has had to subsidize the costs of the premiums not only for lower-income residents, but also for residents with incomes as high as $60,000 for a family of four—which is three times the Federal Poverty Level.17 The state had expected a 'significant drop in spending . . . for the uninsured” but has since acknowledged that this 'is not going to happen to any large extent in 2009.' Instead, overall costs to the state have risen by more than $400 million, 85 percent more than originally projected."
con_5_2	Insurance mandates force citizens to buy special-interest benefits	 Insurance mandates force citizens to buy special-interest benefits Paul Hsieh. "Health care in Massachusetts: a warning for America". Christian Science Monitor. September 30, 2009: "Under any system of mandatory insurance, the government must necessarily define what constitutes acceptable insurance. In Massachusetts, this has created a giant magnet for special interest groups seeking to have their own pet benefits included in the required package. Massachusetts residents are thus forced to purchase benefits they may neither need nor want, such as in vitro fertilization, chiropractor services, and autism treatment – raising insurance costs for everyone to reward a few with sufficient political pull."
con_5_3	Only markets, not mandates, reduce cost of insurance	 Only markets, not mandates, reduce cost of insurance Grace-Marie Turner. "Should Health Insurance Be Mandatory?" New York Times. June 4, 2009: "But the kind of centralized, government-dominated proposals he endorses elsewhere in his letter have a poor track record of producing the savings he needs for this plan to work. And there is no evidence that Congress will significantly cut the growth of spending in Medicare or Medicaid nor will more spending on information technologies, disease management and prevention produce the needed savings."
headline_6	Tax: Are health insurance mandates not like tax increases?
pro_6_1	Mandating insurance does not constitute a tax increase	 Mandating insurance does not constitute a "tax increase" President Barack Obama said in September of 2009: "For us to say that you’ve got to take a responsibility to get health insurance is absolutely not a tax increase. Right now everybody in America, just about, has to get auto insurance. Nobody considers that a tax increase."[3]
con_6_1	Mandatory health insurance is like a tax on just being alive	 Mandatory health insurance is like a tax on just being alive "Mandatory health insurance?" A Dragon in Sheep's Clothing. July 3rd, 2009: "there’s no option with mandatory health insurance. You’d have to get it. The only way you can opt out is to die. So really, it’s like we’re being taxed simply for being living, breathing U.S. citizens living in this country."
headline_7	Enforcement: Can health insurance mandates be effectively enforced?
pro_7_1	Health insurance mandates need not be perfectly enforced to be effective.	Health insurance mandates need not be perfectly enforced to be effective. The most important thing with health insurance mandates - and penalties for non-compliance - is that they create a general incentive to buy insurance and a general discouragement of going without. This will certainly help close the gap of the uninsured, strengthen the risk pool among the insured, and generally improve insurance costs and quality as a result. Of course, many people will still shirk the mandate and their responsibility to obtain insurance. But, as long as a significant number of uninsured are compelled to get insurance as a result of a mandate, the mandate will prove beneficial to the system, the insured, those formerly uninsured that now have insurance, and the country as a whole.
pro_7_2	Mandatory health insurance has strong bipartisan support	Mandatory health insurance has strong bipartisan support. Thus necessary policies can be easily implemented.
con_7_1	Mandatory health insurance cannot be effectively enforced	 Mandatory health insurance cannot be effectively enforced "Mandatory health insurance?" A Dragon in Sheep's Clothing. July 3rd, 2009: "consider that those who refuse to get insurance may be fined. How will the rebels be found out – when they show up at the hospital? Will you have police stationed at the ER now, to fine the uninsured? Or will there be a door-to-door search?"
headline_8	Government role: Do mandates fit within the limits of government intervention?
pro_8_1	Health insurance mandates preserve markets, limit govt	 Health insurance mandates preserve markets, limit govt Ronald Bailey. "Mandatory Health Insurance Now!" Reason. November 2004: "The answer proposed by John Kerry and John Edwards is to continue the creeping socialization of medicine that Americans have been experiencing since the 1960s. That course would mean the end of private health care in the U.S., and with it the unparalleled medical progress that has benefited patients in this country and throughout the world. It would have a disastrous impact on medical innovation and the quality of care. [...] The Bush administration, for its part, has failed to offer a coherent alternative to piecemeal nationalization of health care. But the increasingly successful campaigns to privatize Social Security and expand school vouchers suggest a way out: mandatory private health insurance. Under this system, in effect, purchasing health insurance would be not much different from buying car or homeowner's insurance today. As a result, we could preserve and extend the advantages of a free market with a minimal amount of coercion."
con_8_1	Less government, not more, is answer for uninsured	 Less government, not more, is answer for uninsured Paul Hsieh. "Mandatory Health Insurance: Wrong for Massachusetts, Wrong for America". The Objective Standard. Fall 2008: "Liberals are wrong when they blame the failure of the Massachusetts plan on the free market. The failure in Massachusetts is not the result of too much individual freedom or too little government force; it is the result of the exact opposite: government interference in the marketplace. It makes no more sense to blame the free market for failures caused by government interference than it would to blame a starving cow for failing to produce milk."
con_8_2	Health insurance mandates do not foster responsibility	 Health insurance mandates do not foster responsibility Paul Hsieh. "Mandatory Health Insurance: Wrong for Massachusetts, Wrong for America". The Objective Standard. Fall 2008: "Nor does mandatory health insurance promote “personal responsibility,” as conservatives claim. Personal responsibility presupposes that an individual has the freedom to make his own decisions and enjoy (or suffer) the consequences thereof." 
con_8_3	Mandates in society are very rare and exceptional	 Mandates in society are very rare and exceptional A Congress Budget Office report on the 1994 health insurance proposals of the Clinton Administration in the United States: "A mandate requiring all individuals to purchase health insurance would be an unprecedented form of federal action. Federal mandates that apply to individuals as members of society are extremely rare. One example is the requirement that draft-age men register with the Selective Service System. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) is not aware of any others imposed by current federal law."[4]
headline_9	Car insurance analogy: Are mandates analogous to car insurance mandates?
pro_9_1	Mandatory health insurance is analogous to mandatory car insurance	 Mandatory health insurance is analogous to mandatory car insurance Mandatory car insurance is accepted as an important and necessary means of protecting other drivers, so too should health insurance mandates be accepted as a means of protecting other taxpayers. If one driver hits another and does great damage to the car and individual, it is necessary that the driver has health insurance to pay for the damages. If they do not, than the blameless, injured party will not be adequately compensated, and may be left footing the bill for life-long medical bills. The analogy with health insurance is that "freeriders" without insurance are making health insurance intolerably expensive for everyone else. They should, therefore, be required to purchase health insurance to protect the other "drivers" in society. This analogy and line of logic has been utilized by Barack Obama, who said in September of 2009: "individuals will be required to carry basic health insurance -- just as most states require you to carry auto insurance."[5] 
con_9_1	Auto insur. mandate is for other drivers, not like health insur. mandate	 Auto insur. mandate is for other drivers, not like health insur. mandate Former Department of Health and Human Services officials Peter Urbanowicz and Dennis Smith wrote for the Federalist Society: "The primary purpose of the auto insurance mandate was to provide financial protection for people that a driver may harm, and not necessarily for the driver himself [as health insurance mandates do]."[6]
con_9_2	Auto insur. mandate is avoidable, unlike health insur. mandate	 Auto insur. mandate is avoidable, unlike health insur. mandate Michael Cannon, director of health policy studies at the Cato Institute: "You can avoid the auto insurance mandate by divesting yourself of a car. The only way to avoid a health insurance mandate is by divesting yourself of a body."[7]
con_9_3	Auto insurance is quid pro quo for license to drive.	Auto insurance is "quid pro quo" for license to drive. The state issues drivers licenses as a privileged. With that privilege comes responsibilities that are rightfully demanded by the state, in a quid pro quo fashion, such as the demand that the driver obtain auto insurance in order to protect other drivers on the road. Yet, there is no such contract-like quid pro quo arrangement in the case of health insurance mandates; being alive is not a privilege like driving is, and so is not something the state can bargain with in a "quid pro quo" fashion - licensing the right to live in exchange for a mandate to acquire health insurance.
headline_10	Massachussetts: Does massachussets demonstrate the potential for mandates?
pro_10_1	MA insurance mandates are performing pretty well	 MA insurance mandates are performing pretty well "Misinformed on Massachusetts." New York Times. February 2, 2008: "I’ve been getting a fair bit of mail from people who have heard that things are going very badly in Massachusetts. And there have, indeed, been some very downbeat reports in the media lately. The problem is that they’re all wrong. People are confusing an increase in costs that was largely (not completely) anticipated — after all, the plan is supposed to cover more people, and subsidize their coverage — with a cost overrun. [...] The fact is that the plan does seem to be making a serious dent in the number of uninsured. One thing that has come to light is that there may have been more uninsured people in Massachusetts to start with than previously estimated, so there’s a steeper hill to climb. But claims that it’s all a disaster are based on nothing but bad journalism."
con_10_1	Mandatory health insurance has failed in Massachusetts	 Mandatory health insurance has failed in Massachusetts Paul Hsieh. "Health care in Massachusetts: a warning for America". Christian Science Monitor. September 30, 2009: "Three years ago, Massachusetts adopted a plan requiring all residents to purchase health insurance, with state subsidies for lower-income residents. But rather than creating a utopia of high-quality affordable healthcare, the result has been the exact opposite – skyrocketing costs, worsened access, and lower quality care."
headline_11	Vs. single payer: Are mandates superior to a single-payer system?
pro_11_1	Mandates are less radical than a single-payer system.	Mandates are less radical than a single-payer system. A single-payer system is very radical in places such as the United States, requiring the complete abolition of the insurance industry. Mandates are much less invasive, as they can get to universal health care working within the existing system, mandating the purchase of private health insurance or possibly also a public health insurance option. 
con_11_1	Mandates unnecessary in a single-payer system	 Mandates unnecessary in a single-payer system Marcia Angell. "Regressive and Unaffordable". New York Times. June 9, 2009: "There would be no need for an individual mandate in a single-payer system, since everyone would be covered automatically and it would be paid for through their income and payroll taxes. So asking me, a supporter of a single-payer health system, about mandates is a little like asking someone whether he’s stopped beating his wife."
headline_12	Vs. automatic enrollment: Is mandatory health insurance better than automatic enrollment?
pro_12_1	Mandates send stronger signal than automatic but voluntary enrollment.	Mandates send stronger signal than automatic but voluntary enrollment. Mandates send the signal that health insurance is necessary in society, both for personal well-being and for the well-being of other taxpayers and members of society. An automatic enrollment program, which allows individuals to opt out, does not send as strong a signal on these points.  
con_12_1	Automatic-enrollment is better alternative to insurance mandates	 Automatic-enrollment is better alternative to insurance mandates Stuart M. Butler. "Defining the 'Hardship Waiver'". New York Times Room for Debate. June 4, 2009: "President Obama should propose using a mandate as the last resort, not the first. It turns out that you can get most people to sign up for something by using “automatic enrollment,” where the default is that you are signed up unless you actively decline. Part B of Medicare is voluntary, and yet thanks to automatic enrollment about 96 percent of eligible seniors are enrolled."
headline_13	Employer mandate: Should employer-based health insurance be mandated?
pro_13_1	Employers should be required to offer insurance to employees	 Employers should be required to offer insurance to employees Leslie Dach, executive vice president of corporate affairs and government relations for Wal-Mart, said in July of 2009: "At Wal-Mart, we believe in shared responsibility and support an employer mandate that is broad and fair. We believe the mandate should cover as many businesses as possible, and cover part-time as well as full-time employees. Any alternative to an employer mandate should not create barriers or disincentives to hiring workers with disabilities, entry level employees, or people from low income families."[8]
con_13_1	Insurance mandates violate the rights of employers.	Insurance mandates violate the rights of employers. Insurance mandates on employers violates the rights of employers to freely offer attractive packages to their employees and to engage in contracts generally.
con_13_2	Insurance mandates should be placed on individuals if anything.	Insurance mandates should be placed on individuals if anything. Health insurance should no longer be associated with businesses. If health insurance is to be mandated, it should be mandated on individuals.
