title	More troops to Afghanistan under Obama
question	Should the Obama administration escalate the War in Afghanistan in 2009 and 2010?
headline_1	Terrorism: Is the War in Afghanistan necessary to deprive Al Qaeda of a safe haven?
pro_1_1	W/o more troops, Afgh will become terrorist haven	 W/o more troops, Afgh will become terrorist haven  Bruce Riedel and Michael O'Hanlon. "Why we can't go small in Afghanistan". USA Today. September 4, 2009: "Once the Taliban is back in power in Afghanistan, al-Qaeda will not be far behind. Our top nemesis will be able to salvage a victory in the very place from which it launched the 9/11 attacks eight years ago. Al-Qaeda will have its favorite bases and sanctuaries back, as well as a major propaganda win."
pro_1_2	Defeat in Afghanistan would embolden terrorists globally	 Defeat in Afghanistan would embolden terrorists globally "Obama's war. Why the Afghanistan war deserves more resources, commitment and political will." The Economist. October 15, 2009: "defeat for the West in Afghanistan would embolden its opponents not just in Pakistan, but all around the world, leaving it open to more attacks."
con_1_1	More US troops will increase support for the Taliban and Al Qaeda	 More US troops will increase support for the Taliban and Al Qaeda Nicholas Kristof. "The Afghanistan Abyss". The New York Times. September 5, 2009: "sending more American troops into ethnic Pashtun areas in the Afghan south may only galvanize local people to back the Taliban in repelling the infidels."[1]
con_1_2	Afg only one of many possible terrorist safe havens	 Afg only one of many possible terrorist safe havens Peter Navarro. "Orange Grove: Get out of Afghanistan now" OC Register. September 25, 2009: "Consider the first argument: Afghanistan must not be allowed to be a staging area for al-Qaida terrorists. Of course, it was from Afghan soil that Osama bin Laden oversaw the 9/11 attacks so this argument seems at first glance compelling. However, Afghanistan is now just one of many possible staging areas for al-Qaida. In fact, hot zone that Afghanistan is, it is now much easier for al-Qaida's decentralized networks to conduct operations in numerous other places, with Algeria, Somalia, and Yemen emerging as the newest strongholds. Why aren't we invading them?"
con_1_3	More troops in Afg will inflame broader Muslim anger, terrorism	 More troops in Afg will inflame broader Muslim anger, terrorism Malou Innocent. "No More Troops for Afghanistan. Huffington Post. September 16, 2009: "Overall, remaining in Afghanistan is more likely to tarnish America's reputation and undermine U.S. security than would withdrawal."
headline_2	Historical lessons: Does history suggest the War in Afghanistan cannot be won?
pro_2_1	Many empires succeed in Afghanistan, why not US?	 Many empires succeed in Afghanistan, why not US? Peter Bergen. "Winning the good war. Why Afghanistan is not Obama's Vietnam". Washington Monthly. July/August 2009: "Objections to Obama’s ramp-up in Afghanistan begin with the observation that Afghanistan has long been the "graveyard of empires"—as went the disastrous British expedition there in 1842 and the Soviet invasion in 1979, so too the current American occupation is doomed to follow. In fact, any number of empire builders, from Alexander the Great to the Mogul emperor Babur in the sixteenth century to the British in the Second Afghan War three decades after their infamous defeat, have won military victories in Afghanistan. The graveyard of empires metaphor belongs in the graveyard of clichés."
pro_2_2	War in Afghanistan will not become Obama's Vietnam	 War in Afghanistan will not become "Obama's Vietnam" Peter Bergen. "Winning the good war. Why Afghanistan is not Obama's Vietnam". Washington Monthly. July/August 2009: "what of the [] argument—that as far as the United States is concerned, the war there will be a rerun of Vietnam? Hardly. The similarities between the Taliban and the Vietcong end with their mutual hostility toward the U.S. military. The some 20,000 Taliban fighters are too few to hold even small Afghan towns, let alone mount a Tet-style offensive on Kabul. As a military force, they are armed lightly enough to constitute a tactical problem, not a strategic threat. By contrast, the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese Army at the height of the Vietnam War numbered more than half a million men who were equipped with artillery and tanks, and were well supplied by both the Soviet Union and Mao’s China."
pro_2_3	Soviet war in Afghanistan is not analogous to US/NATO war	 Soviet war in Afghanistan is not analogous to US/NATO war The main difference is that the US was backing the insurgents against the Soviet Union, whereas today there is no such great-power backing of the Taliban.
pro_2_4	Counter-terrorism w/o troops did not work in 1990s	 Counter-terrorism w/o troops did not work in 1990s Bruce Riedel and Michael O'Hanlon. "Why we can't go small in Afghanistan". USA Today. September 4, 2009: "For those who have forgotten the realities of the 1990s — when we tried to go after Osama bin Laden without access to nearby bases by using ships based in the Indian Ocean — the two- to four-hour flight times of drones and cruise missiles operating off such ships made prompt action to real-time intelligence impractical."
con_2_1	Nations throughout history have failed to succeed in Afg	 Nations throughout history have failed to succeed in Afg Eugene Robinson. "In Afghanistan, Downsize." Real Clear Politics. September 22, 2009: "As if on cue, the leader of the Taliban, Mohammad Omar, issued a taunting statement reminding Obama that for more than a millennium, would-be conquerors have tried and failed to subdue the mountain fastness known as the 'graveyard of empires' -- Alexander the Great in the 4th century B.C., the British in the 1800s, the Soviets from 1979 to 1989. [...] 'The invaders should study the history of Afghanistan,' Omar said in a message marking the end of Ramadan, reported the Financial Times. 'The more the enemy resorts to increasing forces, the more they will face an unequivocal defeat.' [...] As galling as it is to accept tutelage from one of Osama bin Laden's key enablers, this does seem to be what history teaches. Pouring forces into Afghanistan has always proved counterproductive. The presence of large numbers of foreign troops is the one thing that reliably unites Afghans -- if only for long enough to drive the foreigners out."
con_2_2	Fear-mongering used in escalating Afg War, was used in Vietnam	 Fear-mongering used in escalating Afg War, was used in Vietnam Peter Navarro. "Orange Grove: Get out of Afghanistan now" OC Register. September 25, 2009: "During my senior year in high school, in 1966-67, our local congressman came to speak to us soon-to-be-draftees about the necessity of the Vietnam War. His basic pitch was a frothy combination of Red menace, yellow peril, and domino theory. [...] the speech rang as hollow as a beer keg after a frat party. [...] Today, I get the same kind of hollowness in my gut every time I hear President Barack Obama and a gaggle of Democratic and Republican hawks offer eerily similar arguments for the Afghanistan war. Terrorism is the new Red menace. Yellow peril has morphed into radical Islam. Dominoes, perhaps surprisingly, are still dominoes. In fact, sober analysis of the two major arguments in support of the war leads me to the same conclusion as my gut – let's get the hell out."
headline_3	Strategic value: Is Afghanistan of strong strategic value to NATO/US?
pro_3_1	Stabilizing Afghanistan important to Western interests	 Stabilizing Afghanistan important to Western interests "Obama's War." Economist. October 15th, 2009: "the West has a security interest in preventing the region from slipping into a maelstrom of conflict. Pakistan, with 170m people and nuclear weapons, is vulnerable to the Taliban’s potent mixture of ethnic-Pushtun nationalism and extremist Islam (see article). Anarchy in Afghanistan, or a Taliban restoration, would leave it prey to permanent cross-border instability." 
pro_3_2	Success in Afghanistan is key to stability in nuclear Pakistan	 Success in Afghanistan is key to stability in nuclear Pakistan Joshua Foust. "The Case for Afghanistan: Strategic Considerations". Registan. August 27th, 2009: "lest anyone think it is appropriate to write off the India-Pakistan conflict as somebody else’s problem, it is never somebody else’s problem when nuclear weapons are involved. As Jari Lindholm reminded, India and Pakistan have come a hair’s breadth from nuclear conflict twice over Kashmir. And like it or not, it is a compelling and vital American interest to prevent nuclear conflict in South Asia—which makes “fixing” Afghanistan in some way also a vital American interest."
pro_3_3	US must show resolve in Afg. to beat extremism	 US must show resolve in Afg. to beat extremism David Brooks. "The Afghan Imperative". New York Times. September 24, 2009: "Since 1979, we have been involved in a long, complex conflict against Islamic extremism. We’ve fought this ideology in many ways in many places, and we shouldn’t pretend we understand how this conflict will evolve. But we should understand that the conflict is unavoidable and that when extremism pushes, it’s in our long-term interests to push back — and that eventually, if we do so, extremism will wither."
pro_3_4	Without more troops in Afghanistan, US will lose allies	 Without more troops in Afghanistan, US will lose allies Bruce Riedel and Michael O'Hanlon. "Why we can't go small in Afghanistan". USA Today. September 4, 2009: "we would likely lose our allies with this approach. A limited mission offers nothing to the Afghans, whose country is essentially abandoned to the Taliban, or to the Pakistanis, who would similarly see this as the first step toward cut and run. The NATO allies would also smell in a "reduced" mission the beginning of withdrawal; some if not most might try to beat us to the exit."
con_3_1	Afghanistan is of little strategic value to US/NATO	 Afghanistan is of little strategic value to US/NATO Andrew J. Bacevich. "The War We Can't Win". Commonweal. August 14, 2009: "What is it about Afghanistan, possessing next to nothing that the United States requires, that justifies such lavish attention? In Washington, this question goes not only unanswered but unasked. Among Democrats and Republicans alike, with few exceptions, Afghanistan’s importance is simply assumed—much the way fifty years ago otherwise intelligent people simply assumed that the United States had a vital interest in ensuring the survival of South Vietnam. As then, so today, the assumption does not stand up to even casual scrutiny. [...] For those who, despite all this, still hanker to have a go at nation building, why start with Afghanistan? Why not first fix, say, Mexico? In terms of its importance to the United States, our southern neighbor—a major supplier of oil and drugs among other commodities deemed vital to the American way of life—outranks Afghanistan by several orders of magnitude."
con_3_2	Sending more troops digs deeper hole for US in Afg	 Sending more troops digs deeper hole for US in Afg Tom Andrews, National Director of Win Without War, argued in February of 2009: "The first principle for someone who finds himself in a hole is to stop digging, The US policy 'hole' in Afghanistan is not of the new Administration's making. But it is important for the President to consider if adding new US combat forces in Afghanistan, without a new and comprehensive plan, for US policy there, might be digging an even bigger hole."[2]
con_3_3	More troops in Afg will anger Muslims, impair efforts in ME	 More troops in Afg will anger Muslims, impair efforts in ME More troops in Afghanistan will certainly be received with concern and anger in the Islamic world. This will make it more difficult for Western and Middle Eastern countries to work together toward mutual objectives, such as peace between Israel and Palestine.
headline_4	Moral obligation: Does US have a moral obligation to send more troops to Afg?
pro_4_1	US has moral obligation to stabilize Afghanistan	 US has moral obligation to stabilize Afghanistan Peter Bergen. "Winning the good war. Why Afghanistan is not Obama's Vietnam". Washington Monthly. July/August 2009: "The United States overthrew the Taliban in the winter of 2001. It has a moral obligation to ensure that when it does leave Afghanistan it does so secure in the knowledge that the country will never again be a launching pad for the world’s deadliest terrorist groups, and that the country is on the way to a measure of stability and prosperity. When that happens, it is not too fanciful to think that Afghanistan’s majestic mountains, verdant valleys, and jasmine-scented gardens may once again draw the tourists that once flocked there."
con_4_1	US/NATO have no more moral obligation to Afg than other states.	US/NATO have no more moral obligation to Afg than other states. The idea that the US and NATO have a moral obligation falls flat when considering that this would put the US and NATO in a position of having a moral obligation to many other third world countries that are struggling and in conflict. Yet, such a broader obligation obviously does not exist, so why should it exist in Afghanistan? 
con_4_2	Limited resources constrain moral obligations of US/NATO to Afg.	Limited resources constrain moral obligations of US/NATO to Afg. Resources are limited, and limit the ability of the US and NATO to fulfill any "obligation" to Afg. After 8 years of conflict, the US/NATO have run out of resources and political capital for the War in Afghanistan. This is not something to be ashamed of, but is instead simply a fact of life based on the reality of a world of limited resources.
con_4_3	US/NATO cannot solve Afg, so cannot fulfill any moral obligations.	US/NATO cannot solve Afg, so cannot fulfill any moral obligations. The US/NATO cannot solve Afghanistan's problems, and may actually be doing more harm than good. In so far as a state cannot have a moral obligation to do something impossible, the US and NATO should not have a moral obligation to fulfill the impossible task of stabilizing Afghanistan.
con_4_4	The US has destroyed Afghanistan enough	The US has destroyed Afghanistan enough The US led war has already killed at least 30,000 civilians. That is 10 times more than the amount of people who died in 9-11. And that is not counting starvation as a result of the war, which Aid agencies were predicting in 2001 would take the lives of 7 million people if the US bombed. Nobody knows how many people actually starved to death but Medicine without Frontiers reported a doubling of the child mortality rate between August 2001 and January 2002. As well as this colossal mass murder, the US has empowered the warlords who destroyed Afghanistan in the 1990's. These warlords now form the Northern Alliance and the US has given them huge support, continuing the saga they began in the 1980's when they supported these warlords to fight the Soviets. The war against Afghanistan has caused massive harm to Afghan society. It is also the supreme international crime of aggression and the only moral thing the US could do is withdraw immediately. For more information on this see Michael Albert And Stephen Shalom Interview,  Malalai Joya - Johann Hari, The 'Good War' Is A Bad War - John Pilger, The Great War For Civilization - Robert Fisk, 9-11 - Noam Chomsky and Bleeding Afghanistan - Sonali Kolhatkar and James Ingalls.
headline_5	Stable country: Can Afghanistan be made into a stable country/democracy?
pro_5_1	Afghanistan is more stable and governable than often assumed	 Afghanistan is more stable and governable than often assumed Peter Bergen. "Winning the good war. Why Afghanistan is not Obama's Vietnam". Washington Monthly. July/August 2009: "corollary to the argument that Afghanistan is unconquerable is the argument that it is ungovernable[...] But the level of violence in Afghanistan is actually far lower than most Americans believe. In 2008 more than 2,000 Afghan civilians died at the hands of the Taliban or coalition forces; this is too many, but it is also less than a quarter of the deaths last year in Iraq, a country that is both more sparsely populated and often assumed to be easier to govern. [...] Not only are Afghan civilians much safer under American occupation than Iraqis, they are also statistically less likely to be killed in the war than anyone living in the United States during the early 1990s, when the U.S. murder rate peaked at more than 24,000 killings a year."
pro_5_2	Success in Afgh. aided by history of statehood/civil-society	 Success in Afgh. aided by history of statehood/civil-society Peter Bergen. "Winning the good war. Why Afghanistan is not Obama's Vietnam". Washington Monthly. July/August 2009: "An assertion that deserves a similarly hard look is the argument that nation building in Afghanistan is doomed because the country isn’t a nation-state, but rather a jury-rigged patchwork of competing tribal groupings. In fact, Afghanistan is a much older nation-state than, say, Italy or Germany, both of which were only unified in the late nineteenth century. Modern Afghanistan is considered to have emerged with the first Afghan empire under Ahmad Shah Durrani in 1747, and so has been a nation for decades longer than the United States. Accordingly, Afghans have a strong sense of nationhood."
pro_5_3	US need not state-build in Afg, but counter terrorism	 US need not state-build in Afg, but counter terrorism While the US and NATO could try to focus on state-building and democratic institution-building in Afghanistan, this is too lofty a goal, and unnecessary. The initial post-9/11 goal was to get rid of the Taliban and prevent Afg from continuing as a safe haven for terrorists. This goal remains legitimate, and any larger state-building goals should be seen as non-essential.
con_5_1	Afg is backward, cannot be salvaged by US	 Afg is backward, cannot be salvaged by US Peter Navarro. "Orange Grove: Get out of Afghanistan now" OC Register. September 25, 2009: "As the British learned in two wars with Afghanistan in the 1800s and the Soviets learned in their bloodbath of the 1980s, Afghanistan is no country at all. Rather, it's a diverse collection of primitive tribes occupying a harsh landscape pockmarked with tens of thousands of hiding places ideal for guerrilla warfare. On the quagmire scale, it rates a full 10 and makes Vietnam look like a cakewalk. Why we want to send American sons and daughters into that trap is the question for this age."
con_5_2	More troops in Afghanistan perpetuates corrupt Afghan government	 More troops in Afghanistan perpetuates corrupt Afghan government Thomas Friedman. "From baby-sitting to adoption". New York Times. September 5, 2009: "On Aug. 29, this newspaper carried a front-page headline that should make your blood boil: 'Karzai Using Rift With U.S. to Gain Favor.' The article said that Obama officials were growing disenchanted with the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, whose supporters allegedly stuffed ballot boxes in the recent elections, while Mr. Karzai struck deals with accused drug dealers and warlords, one of whom is his brother, for political gain. The article added, though, that in a feat of political shrewdness, Mr. Karzai 'has surprised some in the Obama administration' by turning their anger with him 'to an advantage, portraying himself at home as the only political candidate willing to stand up to the dictates of the United States.'[...] It would be one thing if the people we were fighting with and for represented everything the Taliban did not: decency, respect for women’s rights and education, respect for the rule of law and democratic values and rejection of drug-dealing. But they do not. Too many in this Kabul government are just a different kind of bad. This has become a war between light black — Karzai & Co. — and dark black — Taliban Inc. And light black is simply not good enough to ask Americans to pay for with blood or treasure."
headline_6	Afghan security forces: Are more troops needed to train/foster Afghan security forces?
pro_6_1	More troops needed to train Afghan security forces	 More troops needed to train Afghan security forces Bruce Riedel and Michael O'Hanlon. "Why we can't go small in Afghanistan". USA Today. September 4, 2009: "Afghan forces simply do not have the capacity to do the protecting themselves at this point and, given the challenges of building up new institutions in Afghanistan after decades of war, will not have the ability until at least 2012. Even that distant date will be postponed further if we do not deploy enough forces to mentor and partner with Afghans as they build up an army and police force largely from scratch. This adds up to a prescription for a drying up of intelligence."
con_6_1	Afghanistan security forces can hardly be trained	 Afghanistan security forces can hardly be trained Ann Jones. "US wins mind, Afghan hearts are lost". Asia Times. September 22, 2009: "In the heat of this summer, I went out to the training fields near Kabul where Afghan army recruits are put through their paces, and it was quickly evident just what's getting lost in translation. Our trainers, soldiers from the Illinois National Guard, were masterful. Professional and highly skilled, they were dedicated to carrying out their mission - and doing the job well. They were also big, strong, camouflaged, combat-booted, supersized American men, their bodies swollen by flack jackets and lashed with knives, handguns, and god only knows what else. Any American could be proud of their commitment to tough duty. [...] The Afghans were puny by comparison: hundreds of little Davids to the overstuffed American Goliaths training them. Keep in mind: Afghan recruits come from a world of desperate poverty. They are almost uniformly malnourished and underweight. Many are no bigger than I am (1.6 meters and thin) - and some probably not much stronger. Like me, many sag under the weight of a standard-issue flack jacket. [...] American military planners and policymakers already proceed as if, with sufficient training, Afghans can be transformed into scale-model, wind-up American Marines. That is not going to happen. Not now. Not ever. No matter how many of our leaders concur that it must happen - and ever faster."
headline_7	Economics: Is sending more troops to Afghanistan economically sound?
pro_7_1	War in Afghanistan less costly than another 9/11	 War in Afghanistan less costly than another 9/11 Ripper McCord. "The case for Afghanistan". TPM Cafe. September 2, 2009: "It's too expensive. Yes,  but not nearly as costly as the treasure that evaporated following that same September morning. You won't find an estimate of the cost of war in Afghanistan that comes anywhere close to the toll on our economy following 9/11."
con_7_1	The military industrial complex profits from escalation in Afg.	The "military industrial complex" profits from escalation in Afg. Whenever there is a steady escalation of war, in which more troops are sent and more resources expended, the so called "military industrial complex" of military contractors profits greatly. And, certainly, this complex is lobbying for such an escalation for this reason. The public should always be skeptical, therefore, about the motivations surrounding the escalation of war. Yet, even if this "complex" is not driving the thinking and decision-making on sending more troops to Afghanistan, it is important to simply raise the point that the great taxpayer expenditures on the war on making a great number of military contractors very wealthy. This is a moral hazard. 
headline_8	Opinion: Where do opinions stand in Afghanistan and the US?
pro_8_1	Most Afghanis oppose Taliban, support US/NATO	 Most Afghanis oppose Taliban, support US/NATO David Brooks. "The Afghan Imperative". New York Times. September 24, 2009: "the enemy is wildly hated. Only 6 percent of Afghans want a Taliban return, while NATO is viewed with surprising favor. This is not Vietnam or even Iraq."
pro_8_2	Obama should ignore public opinion, send more troops to Afg	 Obama should ignore public opinion, send more troops to Afg Frederick Kagan. "Why we need more troops in Afghanistan". Washington Post. August 16, 2009: "the administration faces pressure not to send additional forces rapidly or in numbers that could be decisive. It is to be hoped that this administration will avoid the errors of the early Bush years and the tendency toward incrementalism and compromise. Military strategy is not about pleasing the most constituencies but, rather, doing what is necessary to defeat an uncompromising enemy. President Obama declared his commitment to do that in March. Now he must follow through."
con_8_1	Increasing troop levels in Afghanistan lacks public support	 Increasing troop levels in Afghanistan lacks public support According to a Gallup poll conducted on Sept. 22-23, 50 percent of Americans oppose the idea of sending more troops to Afghanistan, while 41% support the idea.[3]
con_8_2	More troops is about beating chests, winning votes	 More troops is about beating chests, winning votes Peter Navarro. "Orange Grove: Get out of Afghanistan now." OC Register. September 25, 2009: "The saddest fact is that our new president has taken ownership of this war less for strategic and military purposes and more to show his backbone. As a strong and early opponent of the Iraq war, Barack Obama had to protect his dovish flanks during the 2008 campaign by talking tough on Afghanistan. Now, as he gets deeper into the quagmire, the supreme irony is that he doesn't have the backbone to realize this is an unwinnable war without any compelling strategic rationale."
