title	Health insurance cooperatives
question	Are health insurance co-ops a good model? Are they a good alternative to public insurance?
headline_1	Non-profit: Is it important that co-ops are non-profits?
pro_1_1	Co-ops are non-profits, not run by government nor companies	 Co-ops are non-profits, not run by government nor companies Senator Kent Conrad, a ranking member of the Senate Finance Committee and the figure originally proposing co-ops, said co-ops "have some of the strengths of public option in that they are not for profit and will provide competition for the insurance companies. On the other hand, it meets some of the objections from others who don't want a government-run plan, because co-ops are membership-run and membership-controlled, not government-controlled."[1]
pro_1_2	Non-profit co-ops are driven by health interests of members, not profits	 Non-profit co-ops are driven by health interests of members, not profits The CEO of HealthPartners, Mary Brainered, says that the health insurance co-op has an advantage because it is not beholden to shareholders. "That means that their primary allegiance and accountability is to that membership base and customer base. Making sure health care is affordable is a very big deal to a co-op. Having low administrative costs -- there's no value to our membership in having high administrative fees, so a big focus is on putting the dollars into health care and not into administration."[2]
pro_1_3	There should be more non-profit co-op insurers	 There should be more non-profit co-op insurers Reihan Salam. "Making The Case For Co-ops". CBS News. August 19th, 2009: "The case for co-ops is simple: we don't have enough non-profit insurers. Let's encourage the creation of more of them. This might be wrong. But the potential upside is considerable and the potential downside is negligible."
con_1_1	Non-profit co-ops scale widely without profit incentive.	Non-profit co-ops scale widely without profit incentive. While many social entrepreneurs may find, in the goodness of their hearts, the will to start a non-profit co-op, most people are not willing to invest the initial and sustained effort in something that does not provide increasing returns and profits over time. This is simply human nature, and it places a significant cap on the the potential for co-ops to scale widely and successfully. Indeed, this is why only two major health insurance co-ops exist in America - Group Health and Health Partners - instead of hundreds of them across the nation. As long as co-ops continue to be non-profits, they will not be able to spread widely and help solve the problem of 47 million uninsured Americans. 
con_1_2	Non-profit co-ops are less efficient without for-profit interest.	Non-profit co-ops are less efficient without for-profit interest. The for-profit interest is very important in driving efficiency within organizations, as it offers administrators the incentive to cut costs and increase efficiency so as to increase revenues, profits, share-holder confidence, and administrative fees. Co-ops do not have the same interest in cutting-costs and creating efficiencies, so will be less efficient and more costly.
con_1_3	Insurance industry needs more competition, not co-ops	 Insurance industry needs more competition, not co-ops Michael Leavitt. "Health 'Co-ops' Are Government Care". Wall Street Journal. August 20, 2009: "Our health-care system needs real reform [not co-ops]. We need to abolish the unfair tax that favors employer-sponsored insurance over self-purchased insurance. We need to foster a more vibrant private market with greater competition and choice. We need to make prices transparent and give consumers more freedom to pursue health-care value."
headline_2	Vs. public insurance: Are co-ops a good alternative to public insurance?
pro_2_1	Co-ops compete with insurers like public option could	 Co-ops compete with insurers like public option could Kent Conrad (D-ND), head of the Senate Finance Committee: "The strength of this proposal is that it accomplishes much of what those who want a public option are calling for — that is, something to compete with private for-profit insurance companies."[3]
pro_2_2	Co-ops are a great alternative to the public option	 Co-ops are a great alternative to the public option President Barack Obama said in Colorado in mid August, 2009: "The public option, whether we have it or we don't have it, is not the entirety of health care reform." Later that same day, Secretary of Health and Human Services, Kathleen Sebelius, told CNN that the government run health insurance was "not the essential element" of health care reform. "There will be a competitor to private insurers," Sebelius added. "That's really the essential part, is you don't turn over the whole new marketplace to private insurance companies and trust them to do the right thing." [But, these statements made clear that a public option is not essential, and that a co-op could achieve similar goals of adding competition to the marketplace for health insurance.[4]
pro_2_3	Co-ops complete strong non-profit, private, public mix	 Co-ops complete strong non-profit, private, public mix Matthew Iglesias. "Health Care Co-ops". Think Progress. July 10, 2009: "I’ll say that I think [co-ops are] a pretty good idea, but it stands on its own merits completely apart from the merits of a public plan. In other words, there’s no reason we shouldn’t have co-ops and private plans and a real public plan. Medicine has always been a mix of state, non-profit, and for-profit actors and I think it’s worth broadening the mix of insurance options available to ordinary people."
con_2_1	Non-profit co-ops are great, but no substitute for public insurance	 Non-profit co-ops are great, but no substitute for public insurance While it is entirely true that co-ops are a great option, and should be encouraged, they are not a substitute for a national insurance plan. This has a lot to do with the fact that co-ops simply cannot scale as well as public insurance to solve the problem of millions of uninsured Americans. As House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) said in August of 2009, "If someone thinks a co-op can work for their state, let them go and do it. [But, they are no substitute for public insurance]."
con_2_2	Public insurance has succeeded internationally, co-ops have not.	Public insurance has succeeded internationally, co-ops have not. In reflecting on reforming the United States health care system, it is important to look abroad for examples. Interationally, there are virtually no examples of successful national systems based on co-ops. Public health insurance, conversely, has been very successful world wide, and is a part of virtually every industrialized nations' health care systems - almost all of which rank above the United States in World Health Organization rankings (the United States ranked 37th [last among industrialized nations] in these rankings). Based on these proven examples, it would be wise to implement a public insurance plan, not a co-op system.
con_2_3	Health insurance co-ops are a ploy to defeat public insurance	 Health insurance co-ops are a ploy to defeat public insurance Yale University professor Jacob S. Hacker, argues that efforts to push health care co-ops are meant "to kill the public plan and, with it, the prospect of an effective competitor to consolidated insurance companies that have too often failed to provide affordable health security."[5]
con_2_4	General statements in favor of public health insurance	General statements in favor of public health insurance
headline_3	Competition: Can co-ops scale to compete with private insurers?
pro_3_1	Health insurance co-ops can scale to compete with private insurers	 Health insurance co-ops can scale to compete with private insurers Sen. Kent Conrad (D-ND), a ranking member of the Senate Finance Committee who originally proposed the co-op idea: "I believe they're a good idea because they can provide competition to for-profit insurance companies, and one of the things we need in the system is more competition."[6]
pro_3_2	Insurance co-ops self-sustaining, need no taxpayer support	 Insurance co-ops self-sustaining, need no taxpayer support Sen. Kent Conrad (D-N.D.): "the intent is for the co-ops to become self-sustaining entities—supported, owned and governed by their own members." The fact that they are self-sustaining in this way makes them, in the long-run, a very scalable model, as they can generate an independent stream of revenues. This compares favorable against a government-run public insurance option, which is dependent on taxpayer funding and the whims of government budget allocations. In this sense, co-ops offer a good competitive alternative to private health insurance companies.
pro_3_3	Co-ops can scale in a decentralized and community-focused manner.	Co-ops can scale in a decentralized and community-focused manner. It is not a necessary factor for individual co-ops to be able to scale. Instead, if the model itself can scale, but in a decentralized and more community-focused way, the model can work very well in filling the gaps left by the private insurance industry. And, in this sense, co-ops can compete well on a local level.
pro_3_4	Co-ops are more community-focused than insurance companies	 Co-ops are more community-focused than insurance companies Darla Andrews, a member of the Minneapolis-based Health Partners, was reported saying in an August 2009 CNN article: "I like the small community feel of here. It's more personal attention."[7] Large insurance companies and bureaucracies lose their community feel very easily. Co-ops that scale at a local level can compete more effectively with the idea that they are more community-oriented and easy to deal with in this regard.
con_3_1	Co-ops cannot scale to compete with insurers like public plan	 Co-ops cannot scale to compete with insurers like public plan Sanjay Gupta said on Anderson Cooper 360 in August of 2009: "looking at a lot of these historical knowledge of co-ops, unless you get scale -- hundreds of thousands of people participating -- it is hard for a co-op to compete against a private insurance company, which is why the people who are such supporters of the public option are crying foul. They are saying, look, the public option was a national option, it had scale. Hundreds of thousands if not more people. That could compete. Could a co-op even at a regional level compete?"[8]
con_3_2	Health insurance co-ops cannot scale as quickly as public insurance	 Health insurance co-ops cannot scale as quickly as public insurance A public plan can scale within two to five years, with massive injections of public funds. Health insurance co-ops cannot do this, and will take many years and even decades to scale to the necessary level, and even this is not assured. Paul Hazen, president and chief executive officer of the National Cooperative Business Association, the leading co-op trade group, said that any given co-op will take 10 to 20 years to get up and running successfully and at scale.[9] On this note, Jacob Hacker, a famous political science professor and health care expert at the University of California, wrote, "The history of cooperative is that it's very hard to set these things up, and while we're trying to set them up, there's not going to be accountability and pressure [on private insurers]. They would be weakest when they're most needed — at the outset."[10] 
con_3_3	Health co-ops cannot scale to solve problem of uninsured	 Health co-ops cannot scale to solve problem of uninsured This is an extension of the above argument that co-ops have trouble scaling, but focuses on the outcome of solving the massive problem of around 47 million uninsured Americans. If health co-ops cannot scale widely and robustly to compete with health insurance companies, they will not achieve the ultimate goal of insuring millions of Americans. Nor will it help cut costs and offer better packages to those that can't afford the insurance they have or can afford only bad insurance.
con_3_4	Co-ops lack scale to negotiate prices of drugs, services	 Co-ops lack scale to negotiate prices of drugs, services Robert Reich. "Why the Critics of a Public Option for Health Care Are Wrong". TPM Cafe. June 24, 2009: "cooperatives would lack the scale and authority to negotiate lower rates with drug companies and other providers, collect wide data on outcomes, or effect major change in the system."
headline_4	Reliability: Can health insurance co-ops be relied on? Are they well tested?
pro_4_1	Co-ops are a successful model for health insurance	 Co-ops are a successful model for health insurance Edmund Haislmaier, et al. "Health care co-operatives: doing it the right way". Heritage Foundation. June 18, 2009: "The co-op concept is also longstanding and widespread in the insurance sector, where it is known as a "mutual" insurance company. Thus, such large well-known companies as Mutual of Omaha and Northwestern Mutual Life are in fact cooperatives. There are also successful smaller, niche-market mutual insurers, such as Church Mutual (which offers lines of property, casualty, and liability coverage for member religious institutions) and Jeweler's Mutual (which offers similar coverage lines for members engaged in making or selling jewelry). [...] When it comes to health care, a group that "organizes" coverage provided by insurers could be structured as a co-op, and a company that provides insurance could also be structured as a co-op. Both could be present in the same market."
pro_4_2	Widespread co-op model can succeed in health insurance	 Widespread co-op model can succeed in health insurance North Dakota Democrat Kent Conrad said in a June 2009 interview with Ezra Klein: "the co-op model has proven very effective across many different models. Ocean Spray in the cranberry business, and Land of Lakes in the dairy business, and Puget Sound in the health care business."[11]
con_4_1	Health insurance co-ops are too unestablished to rely on	 Health insurance co-ops are too unestablished to rely on Timothy Stoltzfus, a law professor at Washington and Lee University and a writer on health care policy, said in August of 2009: "The fact that not many [co-ops] exist now shows us there's not a viable model to compete with private insurers. It's effectively a diversion, as far as I'm concerned." [12]
con_4_2	Health care co-ops have a history of insolvency and failure	 Health care co-ops have a history of insolvency and failure Kate Pickert. "Can health co-ops do the job of a public plan?". Time. June 22, 2009: "apart from Group Health and Health Partners, the history of nonprofit HMOs is littered with failures. In the 1990s, a similarly set-up nonprofit HMO in the Washington, D.C., area called Group Health Association was forced to sell itself to Humana, a private insurance company, after its finances deteriorated to the point of insolvency. GHA, which had about 130,000 members, was plagued by falling membership rolls, strikes by staff doctors and nurses and competition from other HMOs. Before being acquired by Humana, GHA even tried to transform itself into a for-profit HMO to stop the bleeding. A partnership between two nonprofit HMOs in New York, Group Health Inc. and Health Insurance Plan of New York, is currently seeking state approval to do the same thing — turn itself into a for-profit company to raise capital."
con_4_3	Co-ops will not necessarily work in health insurance	 Co-ops will not necessarily work in health insurance "Health Care Co-Op Supporters Don't Know What They're Talking About". Huffington Post. June 18, 2009: "As it turns out, [faith in health insurance co-ops] comes from a lot of examples that don't have anything to do with health care, even remotely! As pretty CNN hologram Jessica Yellin explained to birther fanatic Lou Dobbs, health care co-ops proponent Senator Kent Conrad was specifically inspired by an entirely different kind of co-op. [...] Kent Conrad is under the impression that electricity and health care are distributed in the same manner [as health insurance]? That's sort of dubious!"
headline_5	Economics: Are co-ops economical? Can they keep costs down?
pro_5_1	Non-profit co-ops have lower administrative costs and premiums	 Non-profit co-ops have lower administrative costs and premiums Sanjay Gupta: "If you look at the co-op across the board they have a couple of things going for them. They are not for profit, for example. They have low administration fees, overhead fees. As a result they may be able to have lower premiums".[13]
pro_5_2	Co-ops would compete with and improve health insurance	 Co-ops would compete with and improve health insurance Matthew Iglesias. "Health Care Co-ops". Think Progress. July 10, 2009: "Q: How could a co-op offer a better alternative? [...] A: Co-ops presumably would reduce or eliminate some costs, including profits, to compete effectively with private insurers. [...] Q: Would that drive insurance companies out of business?  [...] A: Unclear. Proponents say co-ops would force private insurers to be more efficient and fair."
con_5_1	Health insurance co-ops have difficulty controlling costs and premiums	 Health insurance co-ops have difficulty controlling costs and premiums "Co-ops, Exchanges, Gateways, and The Need For A Public Plan". The Walker Report. August 14, 2009: "Despite efforts to negotiate lower premiums, cooperatives have only been able to offer premiums that are comparable to those in the general small group market. The cooperatives we reviewed typically did not obtain overall premium reductions because (1) their market share provided insufficient leverage, (2) they could not produce administrative savings for insurers."
con_5_2	Rates between health care co-ops varies significantly	 Rates between health care co-ops varies significantly Kate Pickert. "Can health co-ops do the job of a public plan?". Time. June 22, 2009: "Rates could also vary dramatically, depending on regional differences in health costs and the size and makeup of co-op pools."
con_5_3	Co-ops are equally inefficient as public insurance	 Co-ops are equally inefficient as public insurance Rick Moran. "Health Insurance Co-ops Too Much Like the Public Option". American Issues Project. August 18, 2009: "As a concept, health insurance co-ops are attractive because ostensibly, they would be run by the consumer, for the benefit of the consumer, and with no profit motive, premiums theoretically should be cheaper. But in practice, we are liable to get a much different animal with the same kind of inefficiency and administrative waste we see in government run health insurance entities like Medicare or Medicaid."
headline_6	Quality: Do health insurance co-ops offer high quality care?
pro_6_1	Non-profit co-ops are driven by health interests of members, not profits	 Non-profit co-ops are driven by health interests of members, not profits Paul Hazen, president and chief executive officer of the National Cooperative Business Association, the leading co-op trade group: "The purpose of the co-op is to provide economic [and health] benefit to the people using it - not to maximize profits."[15]
pro_6_2	Co-ops implement a more holistic, preventive approach	 Co-ops implement a more holistic, preventive approach Andy Kroll. "Moving past public options and health care co-ops". Mother Jones. August 19, 2009: "Dr. Eric Larson, MD, MPH, and the executive director of Group Health, one of the leading co-ops in the nation, recently wrote to me. [after the jump.] [...] Larson strongly emphasized not just Group Health's co-op model but how it chooses to deliver care—namely, its focus on integrative care, care that treats patients from a more holistic perspective and seeks to proactively treat illnesses and diseases rather than reactively. It's a model that, unlike so much of our health care system, emphasizes primary care medicine and preventive care—a proven way to prevent chronic conditions, which are, of course, a major contributor to skyrocketing health costs."
pro_6_3	Democratic nature of health insurance co-ops enhances quality	 Democratic nature of health insurance co-ops enhances quality Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND), the ranking member of the Senate Finance Committee, said in June of 2009: "The democratic nature of co-ops could encourage increased quality and appropriate utilization and could help foster care integration and other delivery system reforms".[16]
con_6_1	Co-ops cannot collect wide data on outcomes	 Co-ops cannot collect wide data on outcomes Robert Reich. "Why the Critics of a Public Option for Health Care Are Wrong". TPM Cafe. June 24, 2009: "cooperatives would lack the scale and authority to [...] collect wide data on outcomes or effect major change in the system."
con_6_2	Health insurance cooperatives are not very portable	 Health insurance cooperatives are not very portable Rick Moran. "Health Insurance Co-ops Too Much Like the Public Option". American Issues Project. August 18, 2009: "Health insurance co-ops wouldn’t solve the problem of insurance portability either. If you were a member of a co-op in one state, and moved to another, you would have to buy in to their co-op with no guarantee you would have comparable insurance coverage." This is partly a chicken-or-the-egg problem. Because co-ops are not yet widespread, people will not be able to take plans from one state to another. And because they cannot do this, they will be seen as inferior to private insurers that already have this attribute, and will not scale.
con_6_3	Co-ops create tensions b/w doctors and governing boards	 Co-ops create tensions b/w doctors and governing boards "Q and A on Health Care Co-ops". MSNBC. August 17, 2009: "Q. What is the history of health care co-ops in America?[...] A: Very uneven. Many have failed over the decades because they were unable to compete effectively or because tensions between doctors and consumer-oriented governing boards could not be resolved." In general, this highlights the fact that a non-profit health insurance co-op will likely not compensate doctors very well, and this can lead to decreases in incentives, performance, and quality among doctors.
headline_7	Compromise: Are health insurance cooperatives a good compromise?
pro_7_1	Co-ops are a good compromise and alternative to public plan.	Co-ops are a good compromise and alternative to public plan. The public plan is too contentious to pass. While it has significant support, it also has extremely fervent opposition. Passing it would create a near revolutionary-level of outrage. Avoiding this is important, and adopting a co-op model is a good means of doing this.
pro_7_2	Co-ops more politically feasible than public insurance	 Co-ops more politically feasible than public insurance "Has Kent Conrad Solved the Public Plan Problem? An Interview." Ezra Klein interview with Kent Conrad (S.D. D) in the Washington Post. June 11, 2009: "[Ezra Klein:] How do you respond to someone who says, [co-ops are] a terrific idea. More competition is always welcome. But why instead of a public option? Why not do it alongside and let a thousand coverage models bloom? [...] [Ken Conrad, Senate Democrat from North Dakota who chairs the Senate Budget Committee:] Votes. The problem is this. If you're in a 60 vote environment in the Senate -- and I believe we are, because I believe reconciliation simply won't work -- if you begin tallying up the votes, I believe that virtually all Republicans are against the public option and some democrats are. So how do you get to 60?"
con_7_1	Public insurance should not be compromised away to insurance lobby	 Public insurance should not be compromised away to insurance lobby Matthew Iglesias. "Health Care Co-ops". Think Progress. July 10, 2009: "I think the larger issue is that you sort of can’t “compromise” around the core political issues here. Insurance companies object to the idea of a public plan because they don’t want to lose business. Anything you dream up that would cause insurance companies to lose business, they’ll object to." 
con_7_2	Co-ops are a political solution rather than a health care solution.	Co-ops are a political solution rather than a health care solution. Gov. Howard Dean told the Huffington Post: "the basic problem, as the Senate often does, is that they are worried about the internal Senate politics rather than the type of solution the American people want."[17] 
con_7_3	Political difficulty of public insurance is no argument against it.	Political difficulty of public insurance is no argument against it. That something is political difficult, with significant opposition, does not mean it is a bad idea. It says nothing about the underlying merits of the plan. In fact, this argument seems to be used frequently as a means to side-step the debate on the merits of the plan, which is distasteful and un-principled. Opposition to the public plan, and in favor of a co-op, should be based on the actual underlying arguments of whether one or the other would be better for America, not on whether one or the other is popular or politically convenient.
con_7_4	Not enough votes does not justify voting no.	"Not enough votes" does not justify voting no. Many Senators argue that there are not enough votes for a public plan (60 are needed for a "filibuster proof" majority). This is foolhardy, because if such Senators decided to vote in favor of the plan, they could sway the difference in favor of the bill. Voting no because "others will vote no" is, therefore, a foolish self-fulfilling prophecy. It is also clearly un-principled, and based solely on "the political winds" of the time. Senators should vote according to their interpretation of the arguments, and what's best for the country, not according to the votes of their colleagues. 
headline_8	Government involvement: Will co-ops lead to more government involvement? Is this OK?
pro_8_1	Co-ops are non-profits and avoid government control	 Co-ops are non-profits and avoid government control Kent Conrad, a ranking member of the Senate Finance Committee, who originally proposed co-ops as an alternative to the public option in June of 2009, said: "[a co-op plan] meets the objections of many Republicans and some Democrats as well. The co-op is not government-controlled."[18]
pro_8_2	Some government involvement in co-ops is justified.	Some government involvement in co-ops is justified. Government involvement is not toxic. Governments represent the interests of their citizens, in a republic where government is run "for, by, and of the people". To generally bash the government is to bash one's own representation through legitimate democratic processes. Unless one is opposed to the idea of the democratic process and representative republican governance altogether, a limited role for the government in co-ops should be seen as justifiable.
pro_8_3	Health insurance co-ops are self-sustaining, not taxpayer-dependent.	Health insurance co-ops are self-sustaining, not taxpayer-dependent. Sen. Kent Conrad (D-N.D.): "the intent is for the co-ops to become self-sustaining entities—supported, owned and governed by their own members." The fact that they are self-sustaining in this way makes them, in the long-run, a very scalable model, as they can generate an independent stream of revenues. This compares favorably against a government-run public insurance option, which is dependent on taxpayer funding and the whims of government budget allocations.  
con_8_1	Insurance co-ops will require government involvement/problems	 Insurance co-ops will require government involvement/problems Rick Moran. "Health Insurance Co-ops Too Much Like the Public Option". American Issues Project. August 18, 2009: "It would be an enormously complex undertaking — almost as difficult as trying to establish nationalized health care. And the question of whether it would be any better than the public option as far as keeping government out of the private health insurance business is of deep concern to many. While most cooperatives are run by the consumer shareholders, a statewide entity might find such a set up too unwieldy and simply have some crony of the governor heading it up."
con_8_2	Co-ops are a slippery slope to socialized medicine	 Co-ops are a slippery slope to socialized medicine Rick Moran. "Health Insurance Co-ops Too Much Like the Public Option". American Issues Project. August 18, 2009: "There are slippery slope arguments against health insurance co-ops as well. With so many different co-ops, there would probably be vast differences in how efficiently they would be run. Some might even fail without continued government assistance. In the end, the federal government may end up taking them over anyway."
con_8_3	Advocates of co-ops are really aiming for socialized medicine	 Advocates of co-ops are really aiming for socialized medicine Senator Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) said the following about the Democratic co-op proposals: "Now, they — they may try to call it a co-op. They can call it a public option. But you know they are all on record saying they want a single-payer government system. So, any Republican now that helps them pass a bill is helping them pass a government takeover of health care."[19]
con_8_4	Supporters of co-ops will never reduce government involvement.	Supporters of co-ops will never reduce government involvement. Taxpayers and politicians are likely to become too invested in co-ops to ever agree to eliminate or even reduce the government's likely role in them.[20]
con_8_5	Government may never let health insurance co-ops fail	 Government may never let health insurance co-ops fail Robert Zirkelbach, a spokesman for America's Health Insurance Plans, said the alternative being thrown out by the administration raises many questions: "would the government ever allow this entity to fail? If [not], then you'd have the health care version of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac."[21]
con_8_6	Co-ops need government involvement, but then why not public plan?	 Co-ops need government involvement, but then why not public plan? In order for co-ops to be truly effective and competitive against private insurers, the government would have to put significant subsidies and measures behind them. But, then, why not go with a public insurance plan, if the government needs to be involved either way?  
headline_9	Popularity: Are health insurance co-ops popular among citizens and organizations?
pro_9_1	General statements in support of health insurance co-ops	General statements in support of health insurance co-ops This page includes general statements in favor of public health insurance co-ops. These are not arguments, but carry some weight as a sign of public and organizational support.
con_9_1	General statements against health care cooperatives	 General statements against health care cooperatives Glen Stream, an AAFP board member and a family physician in Spokane, Wash., said: "I think the challenges [co-ops] could be monumental. I think their success is far from assured."
