title	Public health insurance option
question	Should the US create a public insurance option and hybrid public-private health care system?
headline_1	Choice: Is it important to give citizens the choice of a public insurance option?
pro_1_1	Public health insurance offers citizens more choices	 Public health insurance offers citizens more choices Jacob Hacker. "The case for public plan". The Institute for America's Future: "public plan choice gives Americans the opportunity to choose for themselves how they value the strengths and weaknesses of a public, Medicare-like plan and competing private health plans."
pro_1_2	Public insurance offers an option to uninsured and struggling	 Public insurance offers an option to uninsured and struggling Richard Kirsch, National Campaign Manager for Health Care for America Now! "Three Reasons for the Choice of a Public Health Insurance Plan". May 15, 2009: "Sure, some people are satisfied with their current health insurance. But the millions of Americans who are tired of increasing costs and decreasing benefits should have the chance to opt into a program that will offer affordable, quality care, says Health Care for America Now's Richard Kirsch."
pro_1_3	Nobody will be forced into public insurance; it's an option	 Nobody will be forced into public insurance; it's an option "Keeping Them Honest". New York Times. June 5, 2009: "Now nobody is proposing that Americans be forced to get their insurance from the government. The 'public option,' if it materializes, will be just that — an option Americans can choose. And the reason for providing this option was clearly laid out in Mr. Obama’s letter: It will give Americans 'a better range of choices, make the health care market more competitive, and keep the insurance companies honest.'"
pro_1_4	Choosing between complicated health insurance plans is difficult	 Choosing between complicated health insurance plans is difficult John Holahan and Linda Blumberg. "Is the Public Plan Option a Necessary Part of Health Reform?" Urban Institute: "there is considerable variation in health insurance products sold, and consumers have great difficulty in making price and quality comparisons. This is especially true in the private nongroup insurance market, but is increasingly true in commercial group insurance as well. [...] The products offered by sellers in insurance and hospital markets are complex and difficult to understand and evaluate. It is almost impossible to compare prices of either insurance products or services provided by hospitals and other health providers." [The status quo, therefore, offers little "reasoned choice". Simple public insurance would make it easier on consumers.]
pro_1_5	Private insurers limit choice of doctors as much as public insurance	 Private insurers limit choice of doctors as much as public insurance Signe Wilkinson. "Unhealthy arguments against public option" Philadelphia Daily News. July 14, 2009: "Opponents of a public option say it will deny Americans the right to choose their own doctors. It's true that some doctors and dentists will choose not to participate in a government-run plan. But many private insurance plans already restrict your choice of doctors by refusing to pay for treatment provided 'out of network.'"
con_1_1	Private insurers offer sufficient choices	 Private insurers offer sufficient choices Karl Rove. "How to Stop Socialized Health Care" Wall Street Journal. June 11, 2009: "Advocates say a government-run insurance program is needed to provide competition for private health insurance. But 1,300 companies sell health insurance plans. That's competition [and choice] enough. The results of robust private competition to provide the Medicare drug benefit underscore this. When it was approved, the Congressional Budget Office estimated it would cost $74 billion a year by 2008. Nearly 100 providers deliver the drug benefit, competing on better benefits, more choices, and lower prices. So the actual cost was $44 billion in 2008 -- nearly 41% less than predicted. No government plan was needed to guarantee competition's benefits."
con_1_2	Public insurance reduces choices by destroying private insurers	 Public insurance reduces choices by destroying private insurers The American Medical Association and Senate Finance Committee: "The introduction of a new public plan threatens to restrict patient choice by driving out private insurers, which currently provide coverage for nearly 70 percent of Americans."[1]
con_1_3	Public health insurance creates two-tiered system (choice)	 Public health insurance creates two-tiered system (choice) Ronald Bailey. "The beginning of the end of private health insurance". Reason. June 9, 2009: "The best result of creating a parallel public insurance scheme is that the United States would end up with an explicit two-tier medical system in which privately insured Americans have better access to better medical care. Such two-tier health care systems already exist in countries with national health care schemes such as the United Kingdom and Germany. In the United Kingdom, more and more Britons are opting for private health insurance instead of remaining with that country's National Health Service. Privately insured Americans would get higher quality health care, but because the market for medical innovation would be smaller, everybody will get worse care than they would otherwise have received had most health care not been nationalized."
con_1_4	Government-run health insurance restricts doctor/patient choices.	Government-run health insurance restricts doctor/patient choices. Republicans argued in a June 2009 letter to President Obama: "[Public insurance] would be a federal government takeover of our healthcare system, taking decisions out of the hands of doctors and patients and placing them in the hands of a Washington bureaucracy."[2]
headline_2	Competition: Does a public option increase competition?
pro_2_1	Public insurance competes with private insurers, keeps them honest	 Public insurance competes with private insurers, keeps them honest President Barack Obama said in March of 2009: "[Public insurance] gives consumers more choices, and it helps keep the private sector honest, because there’s some competition out there."[3]
pro_2_2	Public insurance stimulates competition in a non-competitive industry	 Public insurance stimulates competition in a non-competitive industry John Holahan and Linda Blumberg. "Is the Public Plan Option a Necessary Part of Health Reform?" Urban Institute: "The arguments around the public plan too often ignore what we believe is the central reason for including a public plan as a component of reform: that health insurance markets today, by and large, are simply not competitive. And as such, these markets are not providing the benefits one would expect from competition, including efficient operations and consequent control over health care costs."
pro_2_3	Contradictory to argue public option bad, insurers can't compete	 Contradictory to argue public option bad, insurers can't compete Critics of a public insurance option often argue simultaneously that a government-run insurance option is far worse, and less efficient than private insurance. Yet, they then argue that a private insurance company cannot compete with a government program. This is contradictory. If private insurers believe their product is superior, they should not be worried about a public option.
pro_2_4	Progress with public plan is more important than competition	 Progress with public plan is more important than "competition" Insuring that over 40 million Americans have health insurance is much more important than the ideological notion of "fair competition". This is not to concede that a public plan is unfair, but rather to say that the whole debate over a "level playing field" misses the point that this is primarily an issue about insuring millions of uninsured individuals, by whatever means possible. These individuals need health insurance more than the health care industry needs a level playing field to continue its high profits.
pro_2_5	Government will not favor public insurer over private insurers	 Government will not favor public insurer over private insurers John Holahan and Linda Blumberg. "Is the Public Plan Option a Necessary Part of Health Reform?" Urban Institute: "[one argument against the public option] is that the public plan will always be favored—that there is no way that Congress would let the public plan fail and would find ways to tilt the playing field in its favor, providing it with advantages not afforded private plans. However, experience with the Medicare program does not support this concern. Indications from the Medicare Advantage experience suggest that, if anything, private plans would most likely be favored over a public plan. For example, Medicare Advantage plans are paid percent more than Medicare fee-for-service in 2009 for the average beneficiary, clear evidence that traditional Medicare has not always been favored (MedPAC 2009)."
pro_2_6	Public insurance would not kill the private insurance industry	 Public insurance would not kill the private insurance industry Probably the best evidence of this is found abroad in places such as France, where both public and private health insurance options exist in a hybrid system. This system is rated the best health care in the world, and the private health insurance industry there is doing very well, and filling an important premium market beyond basic government insurance. 
pro_2_7	Public and private insurers can learn from each other	 Public and private insurers can learn from each other Jacob Hacker. "The case for public plan". The Institute for America's Future: "public and private plans can learn from each other as they exploit their strengths and remedy their weaknesses. Expanded coverage of prescription drugs by Medicare HMOs, for example, demonstrated the feasibility of drug coverage for the elderly and helped to increase political pressure for drug coverage for all people with Medicare. The development of performance measures for Medicare private plans provided a template for projects testing comparable measures under the public Medicare plan. Similarly, innovations in coordinating care for elders with chronic illness in private plans have provided a useful foundation for care-coordination demonstrations in the public Medicare plan."
pro_2_8	Insurers/conservatives oppose public insurance because it works	 Insurers/conservatives oppose public insurance because it works Robert Reich. "Why critics of a public option for healthcare are wrong". Salon. June 24, 2009: "[A public option] does crack the door open for expanding the number of Americans who get their health insurance through the government. And this is what terrifies the insurance companies and conservatives. Their fear is that it will actually work. If the program operates well, more and more people will make the rational decision to choose it over private insurance (what we're supposed to do in a market, after all) and the insurance companies will lose customers."
con_2_1	Insurance industry has sufficient competition w/o public option	 Insurance industry has sufficient competition w/o public option Karl Rove. "How to Stop Socialized Health Care" Wall Street Journal. June 11, 2009: "Advocates say a government-run insurance program is needed to provide competition for private health insurance. But 1,300 companies sell health insurance plans. That's competition enough. The results of robust private competition to provide the Medicare drug benefit underscore this. When it was approved, the Congressional Budget Office estimated it would cost $74 billion a year by 2008. Nearly 100 providers deliver the drug benefit, competing on better benefits, more choices, and lower prices. So the actual cost was $44 billion in 2008 -- nearly 41% less than predicted. No government plan was needed to guarantee competition's benefits."
con_2_2	Competition in private insurance can be improved without public plan.	Competition in private insurance can be improved without public plan. While it is true that the private insurance industry does have some anti-competitive monopolies, conglomerations, and State boundary issues, this does not mean that a more competitive environment cannot be created. This can and should be done, but it is unnecessary to inject into the equation a public insurer.
con_2_3	Public insurance is unfair competition for private insurers	 Public insurance is unfair competition for private insurers "The End of Private Health Insurance". Wall Street Journal (editorial). April 13, 2009: "A public program won't compete in a way that any normal business would recognize. As an entitlement, Congress's creation will enjoy potentially unlimited access to the Treasury, without incurring the risks or hedging against losses that private carriers do."
con_2_4	Public insurance would destroy private insurance industry	 Public insurance would destroy private insurance industry Karl Rove. "How to Stop Socialized Health Care" Wall Street Journal. June 11, 2009: "government-run health insurance would crater the private insurance market, forcing most Americans onto the government plan. The Lewin Group estimates 70% of people with private insurance -- 120 million Americans -- will quickly lose what they now get from private companies and be forced onto the government-run rolls as businesses decide it is more cost-effective for them to drop coverage. They'd be happy to shift some of the expense -- and all of the administration headaches -- to Washington. And once the private insurance market has been dismantled it will be gone."
con_2_5	Public option monopoly squeezes health care suppliers, doctors	 Public option monopoly squeezes health care suppliers, doctors Gregory Mankiw. "The pitfalls of the public option". New York Times. June 27, 2009: "Which raises the question: Would the existence of a dominant government provider of health insurance be good or bad? [...] A dominant government insurer [...] could potentially keep costs down by squeezing the suppliers of health care. This cost control works not by fostering honest competition but by thwarting it. [...] If the government has a dominant role in buying the services of doctors and other health care providers, it can force prices down. Once the government is virtually the only game in town, health care providers will have little choice but to take whatever they can get. It is no wonder that the American Medical Association opposes the public option."
con_2_6	Government will favor public insurance; no level playing-field	 Government will favor public insurance; no level playing-field Stuart Butler. "The Case Against: The public plan will unfairly crowd out private coverage". Heritage Foundation. July 28, 2009: "It's simply impossible to believe the claims by Sen. Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.) and others that Congress really will do nothing to disrupt the level playing field by favoring the public plan. With Congress as both umpire and a team manager, one thing is clear: it will favor its own team. The result is the public plan will unfairly crowd out private coverage."
headline_3	Universal care: Is the public option the best way to universal health care?
pro_3_1	Public insurance meets moral obligation to insure the uninsured	 Public insurance meets moral obligation to insure the uninsured Ronald R. Mercer, Bullhead City, Ariz. "America, its uninsured need public option". Las Vegas Sun. Aug. 24, 2009: "A public option health care agency proposed by many Democrats, and an important part of President Barack Obama’s health reform plan, needs a mission statement. It must simply read: 'Provide voluntary health insurance for the uninsured. Leave no one behind.' [...] This is a high ground statement — moral, honorable and American. It is not socialism to care and provide for an American minority, the uninsured. It’s simply the right thing to do. Just as Americans don’t turn people away from hospital emergency rooms, Americans don’t leave people behind when it comes to health care insurance."
pro_3_2	Public insurance is a good alternative for uninsured	 Public insurance is a good alternative for uninsured Richard Kirsch, National Campaign Manager for Health Care for America Now! "Three Reasons for the Choice of a Public Health Insurance Plan". May 15, 2009: "Sure, some people are satisfied with their current health insurance. But the millions of Americans who are tired of increasing costs and decreasing benefits should have the chance to opt into a program that will offer affordable, quality care, says Health Care for America Now's Richard Kirsch."
pro_3_3	Public insurance protects uninsured from economic calamity	 Public insurance protects uninsured from economic calamity 2009 Statement by the American Nurses Association: "A public health insurance plan would expand choices and help protect against potential economic calamity for individuals or families who are not satisfied with their current health coverage, have difficulty paying for their health care, or cannot find affordable coverage."[4]
con_3_1	Public option weakens private insurers, forcing many out of their plans	 Public option weakens private insurers, forcing many out of their plans "The End of Private Health Insurance". Wall Street Journal (editorial). April 13, 2009: "In a recent analysis, Lewin estimates that enrollment in the public option will reach 131 million people if it is open to everyone and pays Medicare rates. Fully 119 million people will shift out of -- or lose -- private coverage. Everything depends on the payment levels that Congress adopts, as well as the size of the eligible pool. But even if a public option available to all takes the highly improbable step of paying at some midpoint between private and Medicare rates, nearly 68 million people will still be crowded out of private insurance."
con_3_2	Employers may dump their employees into public insurance	 Employers may dump their employees into public insurance Stuart Butler. "The Case Against: The public plan will unfairly crowd out private coverage". Heritage Foundation. July 28, 2009: "[With public insurance] there would actually be big changes for many already insured people. Faced with a low-cost public option, many employers would simply close down their existing plan and push their employees into the public plan. Remember that Wal-Mart encouraged eligible employees to sign up for Medicaid, until states and unions thwarted them. All serious analysts agree that many Americans would find themselves dumped into the public plan." Because a public plan would have limited insurance, the public plan may not be able to cover all these people dumped by their employers. In the end, therefore, a public plan may leave more people without insurance, employer-provided or otherwise. Or, it may just entirely negate itself by simply transferring insured individuals from private plans to a public one, leaving little room for the remaining uninsured. 
con_3_3	Universal health care in the US is not a necessity.	Universal health care in the US is not a "necessity". Health care is not a right. It is, therefore, not "necessary" for the government to provide universal health care. A public plan, subsequently, is not a "necessity", in-so-far as it may offer universal coverage.
headline_4	Socialized medicine: Can a public option avoid becoming socialized medicine?
pro_4_1	Public insurance bureaucracies are better than private ones	 Public insurance bureaucracies are better than private ones Paul Waldman. "The Public Option and the Hope of Health Care Reform". American Prospect. December 23, 2008: "There is no doubt that the insurance companies and their Republican allies in Congress will fight the inclusion of a public option with every bit of power they can muster. They'll call it 'socialized medicine' -- but by now we should all have realized that Republicans will call any health care reform Democrats propose 'socialized medicine' (that's what they said about Clinton's 1993 health plan, whose chief cost containment measure was enhancing the role of HMOs). They'll scream about 'government bureaucrats getting between you and your doctor.' But anyone who has tried to get reimbursement for a medical service from an insurance company that didn't want to provide it knows that government bureaucrats are pussycats compared to insurance company bureaucrats." 
pro_4_2	Insurers should not be trusted with sole control of health insurance	 Insurers should not be trusted with sole control of health insurance Jacob Hacker. "The case for public plan". The Institute for America's Future: "As health policy expert Jeanne Lambrew puts the point, the question is not why nonelderly Americans without secure workplace coverage should have the same choice that seniors do: enrolling in a public or private plan. The question is: 'Why should policymakers give private insurers the exclusive right to cover Americans? If private insurers can better meet our goals for the health system, why object to a level competition with public plans?'"
pro_4_3	Public insurance offers a valuable check on private insurance	 Public insurance offers a valuable check on private insurance Jacob Hacker. "The case for public plan". The Institute for America's Future: "Public plan choice creates an institutional “check and balance,” encouraging private plans to uphold high standards of quality, affordability, and access."
pro_4_4	Public insurance is public-private hybrid, not socialized medicine	 Public insurance is public-private hybrid, not socialized medicine Jacob S. Hacker, Ph.D. "The case for public plan choice in national health reform". Institute for America's Future: "[Public option] is not an argument for a universal Medicare program, but instead for a “hybrid” approach that builds on the best elements of the present system—large group plans in the public and private sectors—while putting in place a new means by which those without access to secure workplace insurance can choose among health plans that provide strong guarantees of quality, affordable coverage."
pro_4_5	Private insurers ration as-much or more than public insurance.	Private insurers ration as-much or more than public insurance. Critics frequently argue that government-run health care involves the government "rationing" health care. Yet, private insurance companies "ration" to an even greater extent by denying claims and developing methods for maximize profits, and minimize outlays to those they are insuring. "Rationing" in this sense is the core businesses model of insurance companies. How can a government-run insurance option be any worse than this, particularly when it does not have the for-profit motive, so will offer as much health care to as many people as possible?
pro_4_6	US already has public-private health insurance hybrids	 US already has public-private health insurance hybrids Tom Daschle. "A public plan will reduce costs and improve access". Newsweek. May 2, 2009: "A growing number of Americans already get their health care from a public plan, including Medicare, Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Plan (the Department of Veterans Affairs, of course, also provides benefits). There are public-private hybrids as well, like state employee health plans where the government assumes the risk and insurance companies are responsible for the management. The use of a public plan as it is currently proposed is simply an extension of what we have already done in public policy during the last 50 years. We just have to circle the bases." This should dampen concerns that a public plan is somehow "foreign", and a dramatic attempt to socialize medicine. 
pro_4_7	Efforts to create a public-private insurance hybrid are in good faith.	Efforts to create a public-private insurance hybrid are in good faith. There is no reason to believe that the intentions of those that are advocating for a public option are bent on destroying the insurance industry and creating a single-payer system. It is true that there are many advocates of a pure single-payer system, but there are just as many advocates of a hybrid system. Those that propose such a hybrid - through a public option - should be taken on their word, instead of called liars with a hidden agenda. 
pro_4_8	Conservatives fear successful public plan undermines their arguments	 Conservatives fear successful public plan undermines their arguments Paul Waldman. "The Public Option and the Hope of Health Care Reform". American Prospect. December 23, 2008: "Republicans fear that the public option would work, and therefore undermine their broader arguments about the evil of government and the perfection of the market (and make voters thankful to Democrats to boot)."
con_4_1	Public option puts bureaucrats between patients and doctors	 Public option puts bureaucrats between patients and doctors Karl Rove. "How to Stop Socialized Health Care" Wall Street Journal. June 11, 2009: "the public option puts government firmly in the middle of the relationship between patients and their doctors. If you think insurance companies are bad, imagine what happens when government is the insurance carrier, with little or no competition and no concern you'll change to another company."
con_4_2	Public option is really about making way for a single-payer system	 Public option is really about making way for a single-payer system Gregory Mankiw. "The pitfalls of the public option". New York Times. June 27, 2009: "the public plan would likely undercut private firms and get an undue share of the market. [...] President Obama might not be disappointed if that turned out to be the case. During the presidential campaign, he said, 'If I were designing a system from scratch, I would probably go ahead with a single-payer system.'"
con_4_3	Public insurance leads to socialized medicine, rationing, long-lines	 Public insurance leads to socialized medicine, rationing, long-lines Dr. Donald J. Palmisano, a leading surgeon and former president of the AMA who heads the physicians group Coalition to Protect Patients' Rights: "The government takeover of the practice of medicine [starting with a public insurance program] will destroy the private health insurance companies, and will result in rationing, long lines, and loss of access to physicians in the patient hour of need."[5]
con_4_4	Public option forces taxpayers to pay for other people's insurance.	Public option forces taxpayers to pay for other people's insurance. Those that decide to keep their private insurance will gain nothing from the public insurance option, and will actually have to subsidize the public insurance option by paying higher taxes. This violate the liberty of the majority of taxpayers in order to insure individuals that are often simply too irresponsible to seek and obtain their own private insurance. Such breaches of the individual liberties of taxpayers are unjust.
con_4_5	Public option is only an ideological symbol for the left	 Public option is only an ideological symbol for the left Steven Pearlstein. "It's Time to Give Up On the Public Option" Washington Post. August 19, 2009: "The public option has become for the left what "death panels" have become for the right -- an easily understood metaphor that can be used to wage an ideological war over the issue of Big Government, and mostly a sideshow."
headline_5	Quality: Would a public insurance option improve quality of care?
pro_5_1	US private insurance is inferior to foreign public-private hybrids	 US private insurance is inferior to foreign public-private hybrids Paul Waldman. "The Public Option and the Hope of Health Care Reform". American Prospect. December 23, 2008: "If we're smart and lucky, we might end up with a system resembling the one they have in France (rated by the World Health Organization as the world's best), where basic health insurance is provided by the government, but most people have supplemental private insurance to fill in the gaps in coverage. [...] That kind of hybrid system would still allow 'choice,', yet cover everyone and hold down costs."
pro_5_2	US health insurance is great, but millions can't afford it	 US health insurance is great, but millions can't afford it Edward Kennedy. "Health bill would fix what's broken". Boston Globe. May 28, 2009: "We have the greatest doctors and medical innovations in the world, but more and more Americans are on the outside looking in to a world of progress and discovery that is denied to them because they cannot afford quality healthcare."
pro_5_3	Private insurance puts profit first; public insurance puts health first	 Private insurance puts profit first; public insurance puts health first Richard Kirsch, National Campaign Manager for Health Care for America Now! "Three Reasons for the Choice of a Public Health Insurance Plan". May 15, 2009: "Putting you first. [...] The mission of health insurance companies is a healthy bottom line, not your health. That’s why health insurers deny care to people with pre-existing conditions, charge more if you have any history of even minor health problems and deny and delay approving care. [...] The mission of a public health insurance company will be your health, not the financial health of stockholders. A public health insurance company won’t have multi-million dollar executives with corporate jets. It won’t have to please Wall Street financial analysts. It will have a mandate to provide health care, from preventive care through care for serious and chronic illnesses. And a public insurance plan will invest in health care in our communities."
pro_5_4	Insurance companies insure the healthy; public plan insures the unhealthy	 Insurance companies insure the healthy; public plan insures the unhealthy Ezra Klein. "Health Care Reform for Beginners: The Many Flavors of the Public Plan" Washington Post. June 8, 2009: "The private insurance market is a mess. It's supposed to cover the sick and instead competes to insure the well."
pro_5_5	Public plan counters insurance company efforts to deny claims	 Public plan counters insurance company efforts to deny claims Ezra Klein. "Health Care Reform for Beginners: The Many Flavors of the Public Plan" Washington Post. June 8, 2009: "[Insurance industry] employs platoons of adjusters whose sole job is to get out of paying for needed health care services that members thought were covered."
pro_5_6	Public health insurance is more reliable and less stressful	 Public health insurance is more reliable and less stressful 2009 Statement by the American Nurses Association: "What is lacking in our current health care system, driven by for-profit, private insurance companies, is the reliability and predictability of accessible, affordable care. Many people have encountered the unpleasant reality that they can be denied care when they need it most, or lose coverage when they can least afford it.Private insurers can discriminate based on preexisting conditions, health status, gender, age, claims history, or other factors. In addition, in this unstable employment market, the loss of a job often leads to loss of health coverage, as insurance becomes less affordable."[6]
pro_5_7	A public insurance plan can spearhead quality improvements	 A public insurance plan can spearhead quality improvements Jacob Hacker. "The case for public plan". The Institute for America's Future: "over the last generation, public insurance has pioneered new payment and quality-improvement methods that have frequently set the standard for private plans. More important, it has the potential to carry out these vital tasks much more effectively in the future, using information technology, large databases of practices and outcomes, and new payment approaches and care-coordination strategies. Indeed, a new public plan could spearhead improvement of existing public programs as well as private plans."
pro_5_8	Public-private hybrid leverages strengths of government and markets	 Public-private hybrid leverages strengths of government and markets Jacob Hacker. "The case for public plan". The Institute for America's Future: "Public plan choice will allow Americans to realize the benefits of both public and private plans: flexibility and security, innovation and stability, and market and democratic accountability. And, according to opinion polling, this is what most Americans want: public and private insurance competing side by side so that they can choose the best option for themselves and their families."
con_5_1	Govt cannot run health insurance better than companies	 Govt cannot run health insurance better than companies "The problem with the public option is that our government cannot run any program successfully." Investment Watch. August 18, 2009: "Social Security is broke, Medicare is broke, Medicaid is broke, the government is broke. And they want to run health care??? So we can look forward to another broke program with severe rationing of health care services."
con_5_2	Public insurance less agile/innovative than private insurance	 Public insurance less agile/innovative than private insurance Michael J. Critelli, who served as the chief executive at Pitney Bowes for 11 years, where he was an innovator in employer-based health care: "I cannot imagine that any public health plan operated under the same rules as a private insurance plan could be competitive. The public plan would be subject to all sorts of political interventions and would be required to delay making changes in health plans until it had solicited extensive public comments. It would not be allowed to operate as flexibly with respect to labor work rules or to invest in much technology innovation as a private insurance carrier."[7]
con_5_3	Public insurance leads to socialized medicine, rationing, long-lines	 Public insurance leads to socialized medicine, rationing, long-lines "The End of Private Health Insurance". Wall Street Journal (editorial). April 13, 2009: "Once government takes over the majority of U.S. health-care liabilities [with a public option], it can either provide every service at huge and growing cost, or it can ration services. People who need an MRI or hip replacement or whatever will face waiting lines. Medical innovation will be at the mercy of the price controls hashed out in Washington."
con_5_4	Public health insurance creates two-tiers of quality	 Public health insurance creates two-tiers of quality Ronald Bailey. "The beginning of the end of private health insurance". Reason. June 9, 2009: "The best result of creating a parallel public insurance scheme is that the United States would end up with an explicit two-tier medical system in which privately insured Americans have better access to better medical care. Such two-tier health care systems already exist in countries with national health care schemes such as the United Kingdom and Germany. In the United Kingdom, more and more Britons are opting for private health insurance instead of remaining with that country's National Health Service. Privately insured Americans would get higher quality health care, but because the market for medical innovation would be smaller, everybody will get worse care than they would otherwise have received had most health care not been nationalized."
con_5_5	Public insurance would stifle medical innovation and advancement	 Public insurance would stifle medical innovation and advancement John Lechleiter. "Health-Care Reform and the 'Innovation Test'" Wall Street Journal. May 14, 2009: "I've spent three decades working in or near biopharmaceutical research and development. During that time, I've witnessed breakthroughs as diverse as biosynthetic human insulin, bone-forming agents for treating osteoporosis, new cancer therapies, and a first-ever treatment for severe sepsis go from glimmers of intuition to everyday medical tools. [...] Inventions such as these -- and my list includes only the partial output of the company I work for -- have transformed the most basic expectations of human life in the last century. Today, the average life expectancy at birth in the U.S. is 78; when my mother was born in 1928 it was 57. (She's still in great health, by the way.) [...] Even in the last two decades of the 20th century, new medicines accounted for 40% of the increase in life expectancy in more than 50 countries, according to a recent study by Columbia University economist Frank Lichtenberg. In other words, for every year that life expectancy has increased, five months can be attributed to the availability of new medicines. [...] U.S.-based private industry is the heart and soul of this innovation drama, investing $58 billion in research and development for new medicines in 2007 alone. [...] it is vital to all of us that we insist that reform proposals pass the 'innovation test.' Providing insurance to millions of Americans through a government-run plan would fail the test. Similar efforts around the world have led to rationing of health care and created hurdles between patients and the most advanced treatments. On the other hand, innovation would remain reasonably secure if universal access were achieved through tax credits and government subsidies that allow patients to choose from a variety of private health-financing options."
headline_6	Costs: Is a public option economical, or worth the costs?
pro_6_1	Public insurance option is less costly than private insurance	 Public insurance option is less costly than private insurance "Why The Public Health Insurance Option Is Worth Fighting For". Think Progress. August 19th, 2009: "Real health care reform that includes a new public health insurance option could adopt the kind of payment reforms that would start to “hold down long-term growth in health spending' and encourage providers to deliver care more efficiently. We know that premiums in the public option would be about 10 percent lower and that a real robust plan that piggy backs off of Medicare’s infrastructure could save us somewhere between $75 billion and $150 billion over 10 years."
pro_6_2	Public insurance delivers same quality insurance at a lower price	 Public insurance delivers same quality insurance at a lower price Jacob Hacker. "The case for public plan". The Institute for America's Future: "COST-CONTROL ADVANTAGES OF PUBLIC INSURANCE. It is often assumed that private health plans are much more efficient than public health insurance. Yet a range of studies demonstrate that public insurance is able to provide a given level of benefits for less than they would cost through private insurance. Lower administrative costs and the ability to bargain for lower service and drug prices chiefly explain this advantage, as does the obvious lack of a profit margin in public programs. These features of public insurance not only allow it to offer the same coverage for less than private plans. They also, the evidence suggests, allow it to better restrain the increase in costs over time while preserving inclusive coverage."
pro_6_3	Public insurance option has lower administrative costs	 Public insurance option has lower administrative costs Robert Reich. "Why critics of a public option for healthcare are wrong". Salon. June 24, 2009: "[the critics say] the public plan starts off with an unfair advantage because it's likely to have lower administrative costs. That may be true -- Medicare's administrative costs per enrollee are a small fraction of typical private insurance costs -- but here again, why exactly is this unfair? Isn't one of the goals of healthcare cost containment to lower administrative costs? If the public option pushes private plans to trim their bureaucracies and become more efficient, that's fine."
pro_6_4	Public option cuts obscene profits of insurance establishment	 Public option cuts obscene profits of insurance establishment Dave Johnson. "Health Care: Public Option Is A Must". The Huffington Post. June 6, 2009: "The ONLY reason there is consideration of continuing the failed, greedy, destructive corporate insurance system is because the few who get rich off of it are paying off politicians to keep things they way they are. [...] This is about providing what is best for the people, not about watching out for corporate interests and the profits that get funneled up to a few people at the top."
pro_6_5	Public insurance would not waste money on advertising	 Public insurance would not waste money on advertising Signe Wilkinson. "Unhealthy arguments against public option" Philadelphia Daily News. July 14, 2009: "JUST IMAGINE: "Fireworks Night" at the Phillies' game brought to you by . . . Medicare. Would you wonder why the federal government was spending beacoup bucks on pyrotechnics and a huge sign saying "Choose . . . the Public Option"? [...] Yet the fireworks shows at Citizens Bank Park last Thursday and Friday were brought to the sellout crowds by Independence Blue Cross. When the lights were dimmed to better view the display, one huge sign stayed lit: 'Choose Blue.' [...] Blue Cross and other major health-care insurers are among the most vocal opponents of a robust "public option" in the health-care reform legislation being negotiated in Congress; they say it won't work because government is congenitally wasteful. But it's a cinch that government-run health insurance wouldn't spend money on fireworks or advertising." 
pro_6_6	Public insurance would not waste money on lobbying	 Public insurance would not waste money on lobbying Signe Wilkinson. "Unhealthy arguments against public option" Philadelphia Daily News. July 14, 2009: "government-paid insurance surely wouldn't be forking over the estimated $1.4 million per day that the health insurance industry is spending to lobby members of Congress to block competition from a government plan - and, with it, more choices for Americans. The army of lobbyists includes 350 former government staff members who - before they took the revolving door for a spin - worked for the very same committees that are writing the legislation."
pro_6_7	Public insurer can best negotiate down drug prices	 Public insurer can best negotiate down drug prices Robert Reich. "Why critics of a public option for healthcare are wrong". Salon. June 24, 2009: "Private insurers say a public option would have an unfair advantage in achieving this goal. Being the one public plan, it will have large economies of scale that will enable it to negotiate more favorable terms with pharmaceutical companies and other providers. But why, exactly, is this unfair? Isn't the whole point of cost containment to provide the public with healthcare on more favorable terms? If the public plan negotiates better terms -- thereby demonstrating that drug companies and other providers can meet them -- private plans could seek similar deals."
pro_6_8	Greater prevention and health through public insurance saves money.	Greater prevention and health through public insurance saves money. A public insurance option will guarantee universal coverage, and will ensure that people receive good preventive care, instead of waiting to see if they can ride out their health issues on their own. This saves money in long-term health care costs. And, by ensuring that individuals do not fall ill or victim to being uninsured, a public insurance option will ensure that individuals stay economically productive. 
pro_6_9	Public insurance protects uninsured from calamity	 Public insurance protects uninsured from calamity 2009 Statement by the American Nurses Association: "A public health insurance plan would expand choices and help protect against potential economic calamity for individuals or families who are not satisfied with their current health coverage, have difficulty paying for their health care, or cannot find affordable coverage."[8] Indeed, health care is a leading cause of bankruptcy, which severely damages an individuals ability to engage productively in the economy. A public plan will nearly eliminate bankruptcies resulting from being uninsured, subsequently freeing individuals to productively add value in the economy.
con_6_1	Expensive public insurance option would worsen national debt	 Expensive public insurance option would worsen national debt Karl Rove. "How to Stop Socialized Health Care" Wall Street Journal. June 11, 2009: "the public option is far too expensive. The cost of Medicare -- the purest form of a government-run 'public choice' for seniors -- will start exceeding its payroll-tax 'trust fund' in 2017. The Obama administration estimates its health reforms will cost as much as $1.5 trillion over the next 10 years. It is no coincidence the Obama budget nearly triples the national debt over that same period. [...] Medicare and Medicaid cost much more than estimated when they were adopted. One reason is there's no competition for these government-run insurance programs. In the same way, Americans can expect a public option to cost far more than the Obama administration's rosy estimates."
con_6_2	Public insurance costs will grow as private insurance is pushed out	 Public insurance costs will grow as private insurance is pushed out The American Medical Association argued in June of 2009 letter to the Senate Finance Committee: "If private insurers are pushed out of the market, the group said, 'the corresponding surge in public plan participation would likely lead to an explosion of costs that would need to be absorbed by taxpayers.'"[9]
con_6_3	Public insurance will be used excessively at greater cost	 Public insurance will be used excessively at greater cost Walton J. Francis. "Why a new public plan will not improve American health care". Heritage Foundation. May 5, 2009: "Excess Use. Then there is the matter of managing patient care to improve outcomes and reduce costs. Medicare spends zero on this function.[31] Private plans spend around 5 percent in administrative costs to manage care (second surgical opinions, pre-certification for hospital stays, and the review of preferred provider outcomes, etc.) and often save around 10 percent in reduced use of health care ser vices. Medicare's administrative costs look better arithmetically because the denominator is higher and the numerator is lower, but the advantage is again entirely illusory—$100 in frugal care costs the private plan $16 (the previous $11 plus $5), while Medicare is spending $120 and wasting $20—$10 on fraud and $10 on overuse in addition to the $5 it spends on bill paying. Again, the worse the actual performance, the better Medicare's administrative costs appear as a percentage of total spending."
con_6_4	Public insurance inefficiencies can be hidden by taxpayer-funding	 Public insurance inefficiencies can be hidden by taxpayer-funding Michael F. Cannon. "Fannie Med?" CATO Institute. August 6, 2009: "The central problem with proposals to create a new government program, however, is not that government is less efficient than private insurers, but that government can hide its inefficiencies and draw consumers away from private insurance, despite offering an inferior product."
con_6_5	Public insurance option will increase taxes, drag-down economy	 Public insurance option will increase taxes, drag-down economy Karl Rove. "How to Stop Socialized Health Care" Wall Street Journal. June 11, 2009: "Who covers the rest? Government passes the bill for the outstanding balance to providers and families not covered by government programs. This cost-shifting amounts to a forced subsidy. Families pay about $1,800 more a year for someone else's health care as a result, according to a recent study by Milliman Inc. It's also why many doctors limit how many Medicare patients they take: They can afford only so much charity care."
con_6_6	Low admin costs of public insurance don't mean lower overall costs	 Low admin costs of public insurance don't mean lower overall costs Benjamin Sasse, a former official at the Department of Health and Human Services: "As the case of Medicare's anemic anti-fraud efforts painfully illustrates, less management and lower administrative costs do not necessarily mean the program is really less costly."[10]
con_6_7	Public insurance may force private insurance rate increase	 Public insurance may force private insurance rate increase "The End of Private Health Insurance". Wall Street Journal (editorial). April 13, 2009: "As people gravitate to 'free' or heavily subsidized care, the inevitably explosive costs will be covered in part with increased outlays to keep premiums artificially low or even offer extra benefits. Lacking such taxpayer cash, private insurance rates will escalate."
headline_7	Medicaid/Medicare: Do these examples support or undermine a public option?
pro_7_1	Medicare out-performs private insurance, is a model for public insurance	 Medicare out-performs private insurance, is a model for public insurance Jacob Hacker. "The case for public plan". The Institute for America's Future: "The case made in this brief is that this menu of health plans must include a good public plan modeled after Medicare if the broad goals of reform—universal insurance and improved value—are to be achieved. [...] First, public insurance has a better track record than private insurance when it comes to reining in costs while preserving access. By way of illustration, between 1997 and 2006, health spending per enrollee (for comparable benefits) grew at 4.6 percent a year under Medicare, compared with 7.3 percent a year under private health insurance. At the same time, Medicare has maintained high levels of provider participation and patient access to care. [...] Medicare has proven superior at cost control not just to health plans in the private sector, but also to private plans that contract with the federal government, such as those offered through the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (FEHBP)—suggesting that public insurance can outperform private plans even in the context of insurance reforms."
con_7_1	Costs of Medicare/Medicaid show public insurance waste	 Costs of Medicare/Medicaid show public insurance waste Gregory Mankiw. "The pitfalls of the public option" New York Times. June 27, 2009: "The largest existing public health programs — Medicare and Medicaid — are the main reason that the government’s long-term finances are in shambles. True, Medicare’s administrative costs are low, but it is easy to keep those costs contained when a system merely writes checks without expending the resources to control wasteful medical spending."
con_7_2	Medicare and public insurance fail to provide good fraud protection	 Medicare and public insurance fail to provide good fraud protection 
con_7_3	Medicare/Medicaid are not successes and models for public insurance	 Medicare/Medicaid are not successes and models for public insurance
headline_8	Vs. mandates: Is public insurance superior to mandating buying private insurance?
pro_8_1	Public option is better way to universal care than mandates	 Public option is better way to universal care than mandates Robert Creamer. "Three Reasons Why a Strong Public Option is Likely to be Part of Health Insurance Reform" Huffington Post. August 18, 2009: "most major health insurance markets are dominated by two or three companies so there is no real competition -particularly with respect to price. [...] Once everyone is required [by mandates] to buy insurance, the companies can have a field day raising prices and profits using the government to guarantee they are paid - either through subsidies or the imposition of fines. You can see why, from an insurance company perspective, this would be a great deal."
pro_8_2	Mandates wrongly give insurers millions of new customers	 Mandates wrongly give insurers millions of new customers Robert Creamer. "Three Reasons Why a Strong Public Option is Likely to be Part of Health Insurance Reform" Huffington Post. August 18, 2009: "Once everyone is required [by mandates] to buy insurance, the companies can have a field day raising prices and profits using the government to guarantee they are paid - either through subsidies or the imposition of fines. You can see why, from an insurance company perspective, this would be a great deal. But from the point of view of the taxpayers - and the insurance ratepayers - it would be a disaster. It would be like giving the insurance companies a license to take your money - with no regulation - all enforced by government edict."
con_8_1	Universal care better achieved with mandates than public option	 Universal care better achieved with mandates than public option Stuart Butler. "The Case Against: The public plan will unfairly crowd out private coverage". Heritage Foundation. July 28, 2009: "One argument is that a government-sponsored plan is needed so that Americans with modest income and chronic medical problems -- the kind of people who are literally uninsurable -- can be assured of getting coverage. [...] But this overlooks everything else that has already been agreed. There's bipartisan support for subsidies and health exchanges to assure portable, affordable coverage. Even the health insurance industry would accept revamped regulation to limit premium variation so that sicker people can get coverage. And we've made great progress in recent years with reinsurance and risk adjustment mechanisms to handle high-risk people. [...] A public plan does nothing to advance on this. It is anathema to many of the very people who are in agreement and just throws a monkey wrench into the discussion."
headline_9	Regulation: Is better regulation of insurance companies insufficient?
pro_9_1	Public option is needed because regulating insurers is insufficient	 Public option is needed because regulating insurers is insufficient Paul Krugman. "The public option as a signal". New York Times. August 17, 2009: "to have a workable system without the public option, you need to have effective regulation of the insurers. Given the realities of our money-dominated politics, you really have to worry whether that can be done — which is a reason to have a more or less automatic mechanism [public insurance] for disciplining the industry."
pro_9_2	Status quo of insurance company control is unacceptable	 Status quo of insurance company control is unacceptable Barack Obama. "Why We Need Health Care Reform". New York Times. August 15, 2009: "In the coming weeks, the cynics and the naysayers will continue to exploit fear and concerns for political gain. But for all the scare tactics out there, what’s truly scary — truly risky — is the prospect of doing nothing. If we maintain the status quo [of health care dominated by health insurance companies under government regulations], we will continue to see 14,000 Americans lose their health insurance every day. Premiums will continue to skyrocket. Our deficit will continue to grow. And insurance companies will continue to profit by discriminating against sick people."
con_9_1	Healthcare reform/regulation can succeed without public option	 Healthcare reform/regulation can succeed without public option Stuart Butler. "The Case Against: The public plan will unfairly crowd out private coverage". Heritage Foundation. July 28, 2009: "One argument is that a government-sponsored plan is needed so that Americans with modest income and chronic medical problems -- the kind of people who are literally uninsurable -- can be assured of getting coverage. [...] But this overlooks everything else that has already been agreed. There's bipartisan support for subsidies and health exchanges to assure portable, affordable coverage. Even the health insurance industry would accept revamped regulation to limit premium variation so that sicker people can get coverage. And we've made great progress in recent years with reinsurance and risk adjustment mechanisms to handle high-risk people. [...] A public plan does nothing to advance on this. It is anathema to many of the very people who are in agreement and just throws a monkey wrench into the discussion."
headline_10	Getting reform: Is the public option a threat to reform of any kind?
pro_10_1	Public insurance is an essential and nonnegotiable part of reform	 Public insurance is an essential and nonnegotiable part of reform Howard Dean told the Washington Post: "The worst thing that could happen is to pass a bill without a public option. We all voted for change we can believe in. If we don’t get it, we’ll get some more change in 2010. We’ve got to get it done. This is the time."[12]
pro_10_2	Public insurance option is a reasonable compromise.	Public insurance option is a reasonable compromise. The public insurance option is a compromise between the very prominent extremes of those that want the continuation of the status quo - with solely private insurance companies in charge of health care - and those that advocate for a single-payer system, in which insurance companies simply cease to exist. It is therefore, unreasonable to argue that such a half-way compromise (that concedes the possibility of destroying the insurance industry altogether with a single-payer system) goes to far. It is a reasonable compromise that should not be seen as a deal-breaker by opponents of government programs.
pro_10_3	Public option is next best option to single-payer health care	 Public option is next best option to single-payer health care Paul Waldman. "The Public Option and the Hope of Health Care Reform". American Prospect. December 23, 2008: "Although the public option wasn't the topic of a great deal of discussion during the campaign, for many progressives it amounts to a beautiful jewel hidden amidst a pile of compromise and disappointment. Ask average progressives what they think ought to be done about health care, and many will reply, 'Well, a single-payer system would obviously be the best thing. But since that's politically impossible…'."
pro_10_4	Pursuit of bipartisan reform should not hold up public option	 Pursuit of bipartisan reform should not hold up public option Paul Waldman. "The 10 dumbest arguments against health-care reform." The American Prospect. July 28, 2009: "What we really need is a 'bipartisan' health-reform bill -- and if Democrats act properly, they could get one. The myth that "bipartisan" legislation works better than partisan legislation is widespread, but virtually no real evidence supports it. [...] More important, Republicans are not going to vote for this health-care reform, no matter what the final bill looks like. Chances are it will get zero Republican votes in the House and maybe two Republican votes in the Senate, tops. Anyone who thinks more optimistically has been partaking of too many free samples from pharmaceutical lobbyists."
con_10_1	Public option jeopardizes passing healthcare reform legislation	 Public option jeopardizes passing healthcare reform legislation Stuart Butler. "The Case Against: The public plan will unfairly crowd out private coverage". Heritage Foundation. July 28, 2009: "I've spent the last 30 years trying to achieve affordable health coverage for all Americans, so it's frustrating to see the obsession with a 'public plan' making it impossible for reasonable people from both parties to come together. 'The fixation on a public plan is bizarre and counterproductive,' The Washington Post put it recently in an editorial. 'It would be a huge mistake for the left to torpedo reform over this question.' [...] Why does such a seemingly benign idea pose such a dire threat? Because supporters are disingenuous about their real goals and about how it would really work. The arguments for a public option as the only way to achieve certain objectives just don't stack up."
con_10_2	Healthcare reform/regulation can succeed without public option	 Healthcare reform/regulation can succeed without public option Stuart Butler. "The Case Against: The public plan will unfairly crowd out private coverage". Heritage Foundation. July 28, 2009: "There's bipartisan support for subsidies and health exchanges to assure portable, affordable coverage. Even the health insurance industry would accept revamped regulation to limit premium variation so that sicker people can get coverage. And we've made great progress in recent years with reinsurance and risk adjustment mechanisms to handle high-risk people. [...] A public plan does nothing to advance on this. It is anathema to many of the very people who are in agreement and just throws a monkey wrench into the discussion."
con_10_3	There are not enough votes to pass a public insurance plan.	There are not enough votes to pass a public insurance plan. Independent US senator Joseph Lieberman from Connecticut: "the votes are not there for a public health plan, government-run option. And this can stand in the way of a historic achievement for President Obama and Congress and the American people, which is really to establish a universal access to quality, affordable health care plan in America."[13]
headline_11	Businesses: Would a public option benefit businesses?
pro_11_1	Public insurance saves many businesses cost of health insurance	 Public insurance saves many businesses cost of health insurance Paul Waldman. "The Public Option and the Hope of Health Care Reform". American Prospect. December 23, 2008: "big business and small business can finally be persuaded that a strong public insurance program is in their interest, since it will save them money (their prior opposition to health care reform has always been more ideological than economic)."
pro_11_2	Public insurance makes workers healthier and more productive.	Public insurance makes workers healthier and more productive. A public insurance option will guarantee universal coverage, and will ensure that people with medical conditions receive the preventive care they need, which saves money in long-term health care costs. And, by ensuring that individuals do not fall ill or victim to being uninsured, a public insurance option will ensure that individuals stay economically productive. 
con_11_1	Employers may dump their employees into public insurance	 Employers may dump their employees into public insurance Stuart Butler. "The Case Against: The public plan will unfairly crowd out private coverage". Heritage Foundation. July 28, 2009: "But there would actually be big changes for many already insured people. Faced with a low-cost public option, many employers would simply close down their existing plan and push their employees into the public plan. Remember that Wal-Mart encouraged eligible employees to sign up for Medicaid, until states and unions thwarted them. All serious analysts agree that many Americans would find themselves dumped into the public plan."
con_11_2	Public insurance will be paid for by taxes on businesses	 Public insurance will be paid for by taxes on businesses "The End of Private Health Insurance". Wall Street Journal (editorial). April 13, 2009: "Mr. Obama's proposal would be open to everyone and necessitate a huge permanent increase in government spending as a share of the economy. Medicare and Medicaid alone account for 4% of GDP today and will rise to 9% by 2035, according to the Congressional Budget Office. CBO estimates that individual and corporate income tax rates would have to rise by about 90% to finance the projected increase in spending through 2050 -- without the new middle-class entitlement."
headline_12	Doctors: Does a public insurance option favor doctors/hospitals?
pro_12_1	Public insurance will give doctors/hospitals millions of new patients.	Public insurance will give doctors/hospitals millions of new patients. It is surprising that the American Medical Association would complain about over forty million Americans suddenly having insurance so that they can pay doctors and hospitals for health care services. This is certainly a good thing for the health care industry overall (doctors in particular), despite possibly being a less than advantageous opportunity for the private health insurance industry. So what's the problem?
pro_12_2	Public insurance frees doctors from paperwork with private insurers.	Public insurance frees doctors from paperwork with private insurers. Washington State Congressman Jim McDermott said in July 22nd comment to Fox News: "If things are so good [for doctors], why are doctors buried under an ever-increasing mountain of paperwork from insurance companies?"[14]
con_12_1	Hospitals may be overwhelmed by new public-insurance patients.	Hospitals may be overwhelmed by new public-insurance patients. American Medical Association said in a June 2009 letter to the Senate Finance Committee that it "cannot support any plan design that mandates physician participation... many physicians and providers may not have the capability to accept the influx of new patients that could result from such a mandate.
con_12_2	Public insurance wrongly mandates physician participation.	Public insurance wrongly mandates physician participation. The American Medical Association wrote in a June 2009 letter to the Senate Finance Committee that the association, "cannot support any plan design that mandates physician participation... Federal programs traditionally have never required physician or other provider participation, but rather such participation has been on a voluntary basis [...] we absolutely oppose government control of health care decisions or mandatory physician participation in any insurance plan.”[15]
con_12_3	Public insurance will discourage people from becoming doctors.	Public insurance will discourage people from becoming doctors. Public insurance, and the specter of increasingly socialized medicine, will discourage prospective doctors from entering the industry, as they will fear that their hard work will not be fairly rewarded. 
headline_13	Cooperatives: Are cooperatives an inadequate alternative to public insurance option?
pro_13_1	Cooperatives are an insufficient alternative to a public option	 Cooperatives are an insufficient alternative to a public option Senator John Rockefeller. Democrat from  West Virginia: "Are cooperatives going to be effective in taking on these gigantic insurance companies? The answer is a flat no."
con_13_1	Co-ops are not government-run like public insurance	 Co-ops are not government-run like public insurance "Cooperatives Being Pushed as an Alternative to a Government Plan". Washington Post. August 18, 2009: "As prospects fade for a public, or government-run, option as part of health-care reform, key senators are considering another model to create competition for private insurers: member-owned, nonprofit health cooperatives. [...] Sen. Kent Conrad (D-N.D.), the chief advocate for including cooperatives in reform legislation, has cited examples as disparate as the Land O'Lakes dairy concern, rural electricity cooperatives and Ace Hardware. [...] But so far, cooperatives have been defined in the health-care debate primarily in terms of what they are not: They would not be run by the government. [...] That may make the cooperatives more politically palatable to conservatives, as well as to some Democrats such as Conrad, who fear that the public option may be a bridge too far."
headline_14	Public opinion: Where does the public stand on this option?
pro_14_1	US polls find a majority favor a public insurance option	 US polls find a majority favor a public insurance option According to an October, 2009 CNN poll, 61% of sampled Americans favor a public option (55% back in August, while 4% were undecided).  [17]
pro_14_2	Divisions on public vs. private healthcare suggests a hybrid	 Divisions on public vs. private healthcare suggests a hybrid Jacob Hacker. "The case for public plan". The Institute for America's Future: "Perhaps that is why Americans have long been strongly supportive of public-private hybrids in health care, believing that neither the government nor private insurance should be the sole source of coverage in a reformed system. In polls, a Medicare-like program covering all Americans beats the current system hands down. Yet Americans are even more receptive toward a mandate on employers to provide coverage.78 Historically, Americans have been deeply divided about their preferred approach to expanding health insurance. Although repeated surveys find a majority endorsing “national health insurance” for most of the second half of the twentieth century, when asked explicitly, Americans split evenly between those who favor administration of insurance benefits by government and those who prefer subsidies for private insurers.79 Thus, Americans seem to desire a combination of both private employment-based coverage and expanded public programs."
con_14_1	Following majority support for public option is tyranny of majority.	Following majority support for public option is tyranny of majority. Appeal to the majority is nothing more than tyranny of the majority and means absolutely nothing to whether a public insurance option is worth it or will even help. Just in case you don't believe this, ask yourself this... if 51% of the public thought slavery was good, would you use that as an argument for a change in equal rights' laws?
