title	Mandatory calorie counts on menus
question	Is mandating calorie counts on restaurant menus good public policy?
headline_1	Choice: Do mandatory calorie counts improve consumer choice?
pro_1_1	Calories on menus empower consumers to make healthier choices	 Calories on menus empower consumers to make healthier choices The Department of Health argued in October of 2007, in regards to the New York city legislation mandating calorie counts on menus: "calorie information provided at the time of food selection would enable New Yorkers to make more informed, healthier choices."[1]
pro_1_2	Calorie counts make it easier to judge calories in foods	 Calorie counts make it easier to judge calories in foods "Should Restaurants Be Required To Post Calorie Information?". Dr. Dolgoff's Weigh. Dr. Dolgoff. July 19th, 2009: "As a pediatrician and child obesity specialist, I spend my days talking to overweight families.  I am constantly surprised at the lack of knowledge about calories and nutrition.  While it may seem obvious that certain foods have a lot of calories, most people are unaware of exactly how many calories they contain." In general, even with people who are not obese, it can be difficult to accurately judge the calories in any given restaurant entre, with people consistently expressing surprise at the actual calorie content of certain meals. Calorie counts helps avoid any ambiguity, clarifying exactly what consumers are getting. This is as it should be. 
pro_1_3	Calorie counts offer info, they don't pressure consumers	 Calorie counts offer info, they don't pressure consumers Raquel Bournhonesque, a member of Upstream Public Health and the Oregon Nutrition Policy Alliance, who supported a 2009 bill in Oregon that mandated calorie counts on menus: "It is just information. It doesn't tell people what to order or how to eat."[2] This responds to the criticism that mandating calories is somehow "social engineering" or the coercion of consumers. It does not do so. The information that is provided on menus offers no judgement at all as to whether it is "bad" to consume a meal with 1,000 calories. But, it is important for consumers to know and have this information. 
pro_1_4	Social engineering with calorie counts is justified in health crisis.	"Social engineering" with calorie counts is justified in health crisis. It is justified for the government discourage certain behavior when that behavior (overeating), has created a health crisis that both damages overweight individuals, and places a burden on other citizens (in the form of higher health care costs). 
pro_1_5	Fear of government should not obstruct calorie counts on menus	 Fear of government should not obstruct calorie counts on menus "A recipe for controversy" Los Angeles Times (editorial). August 10, 2009: "all reform has to start somewhere. It's counterproductive to avoid action because of fears that it will lead to scarier actions later; the time to stop is when regulations become overly burdensome on businesses and overly restrictive of consumer choice. The calorie-count rule is neither, and it would also avert a patchwork of labeling laws in states such as California and New York by setting a national standard for all chains. As a bonus, it may be the only piece of legislation in 2009 with a strong chance to make Americans look better in their swimsuits."
con_1_1	Customers don't need calorie counts to choose healthy vs. unhealthy.	Customers don't need calorie counts to choose healthy vs. unhealthy. People are not stupid. They know when they are eating healthy food and they know when they are eating unhealthy food. It is common sense. People that choose to eat at McDonalds don't need calorie counts on menus to demonstrate that the food is unhealthy. They already know, and don't care. If people want to choose to eat healthy, they already have enough information to choose to make healthier choices, such as eating fruits and vegetables, cutting portion sizes, and exercising regularly. People are already fully able to choose healthy vs. unhealthy diets and life styles. Calories counts on menus will not improve their ability to make that choice. 
con_1_2	Calories on menus is a malign form of government social engineering	 Calories on menus is a malign form of government social engineering Jeff Jacoby. "Want a warning label with those fries?" The Boston Globe. January 11, 2009: "[...] Jacob Sullum of Reason magazine puts his finger on it: 'A legal requirement is necessary not because diners want conspicuous nutritional information but because, by and large, they don't want it.' Nanny-statists find it easy to disregard consumers' wishes. After all, they reason, it's for their own good -- obesity is a deadly scourge that government must not ignore. Massachusetts Public Health Commissioner John Auerbach warned darkly last week that 'unless we make progress' -- that is, unless the government imposes new restrictions on liberty -- 'overweight and obesity will overtake smoking as the leading cause of preventable death in Massachusetts.'"
con_1_3	Mandatory calorie counts infringe restaurants' freedom of speech	 Mandatory calorie counts infringe restaurants' freedom of speech The New York State Restaurant Association made this argument against New York city's imposition of calorie counting laws on restaurants in the summer of 2008.[3]
con_1_4	Consumers can find info off menus, calorie counts unnecessary	 Consumers can find info off menus, calorie counts unnecessary Steve Chapman. "Force-fed the facts". Reason. June 23, 2008: "the entire effort rests on assumptions that are unexamined and unfounded. The first is that consumers place a high value on the information being mandated. Actually, most of it is already accessible (online, among other ways) to anyone who is interested. In many places, it is available onsite, on tray liners or pamphlets." [Therefore, customers already often have a choice to inform themselves on the calorie contents of foods in restaurants].
con_1_5	Counting portions, not calories, is a better route to health	 Counting portions, not calories, is a better route to health Bill Phillips. "The Truth About Counting Calories". FormerFatGuy.com: "There aren't many people who can keep track of their calorie intake for an extended period of time. As an alternative, I recommend counting 'portions.' A portion of food is roughly equal to the size of your clenched fist or the palm of your hand. Each portion of protein or carbohydrate typically contains between 100 and 150 calories. For example, one chicken breast is approximately one portion of protein, and one medium-sized baked potato is approximately one portion of carbohydrate."
headline_2	Rights: Do consumers have a right to know the calories on the menu?
pro_2_1	Consumers have a right to know calories in meals	 Consumers have a right to know calories in meals Karen Springen. "Full Disclosure". Newsweek. November 14, 2008: "The other important reason [for calorie counts] is just consumers' right to know. You have whatever clothing you're wearing now. It has the tag on it that says where it's made and what it's made of. Why? You deserve to know. When you buy a packaged food, it says what's in it. Consumers would be upset if that information was taken away."
con_2_1	Diners want blissful ignorance without calorie counts	 Diners want blissful ignorance without calorie counts Jacob Sullum. "Are you sure you want fries with that?" Reason. August 20, 2008: "What about the consumer's right not to know? The same research that supporters of menu mandates like to cite indicates that most consumers prefer to avoid calorie counts, enjoying their food in blissful ignorance. There's a difference between informing people and nagging them."
headline_3	Blissful ignorance: Do mandatory calorie counts destroy blissful ignorance?
pro_3_1	Calorie counts rightly value health over blissful ignorance	 Calorie counts rightly value health over blissful ignorance There is no such thing as "blissful ignorance". While it is interesting to argue that customers sometimes would prefer to live in "blissful ignorance" of the calories in the foods they are eating, this argument is much weaker than the general principle that more information is always better, especially when it comes to health. The "bliss" a few customers might feel when ignoring their health at a restaurant is far outweighed by the pain and suffering caused by obesity, heart-disease, and the strains on the health-care system that result.
pro_3_2	Only small minority prefers blissful ignorance to calories on menus.	Only small minority prefers "blissful ignorance" to calories on menus. It is probably true that some people would prefer not to know how many calories are in the food that they are consuming. But, this kind of blissful-ignorance attitude is the minority, and the majority - who care about their health - should not be denied this important information in order to prop up a mis-guided, ignorant, and harmful attitude. 
con_3_1	Diners want blissful ignorance without calorie counts	 Diners want blissful ignorance without calorie counts Jacob Sullum. "Are you sure you want fries with that?" Reason. August 20, 2008: "What about the consumer's right not to know? The same research that supporters of menu mandates like to cite indicates that most consumers prefer to avoid calorie counts, enjoying their food in blissful ignorance. There's a difference between informing people and nagging them."
headline_4	Opinion: Do citizens strongly desire calorie counts on menus?
pro_4_1	Large majorities of citizens want calorie counts on menus	 Large majorities of citizens want calorie counts on menus Steve Chapman. "Force-fed the facts". Reason. June 23, 2008: "A survey by the agency of more than 2,000 adults last summer suggested 85% of consumers agreed restaurants, pubs and cafes had a responsibility to make clear what was in the food they served, and later research showed people wanted clear, simple information at the point of sale. The agency expects consumer demand to force all food outlets from the very small to the very expensive to give calorie information." [such large majorities want to be able to make informed choices based on the calorie information provided on menus]
con_4_1	Customers are indifferent to calorie counts on menus	 Customers are indifferent to calorie counts on menus In other words, consumers aren't really demanding "a choice", and calorie counts on menus. Ken Poulin, a consumer in New York said to USA Today in response to a 2008 New York law that required certain large restaurant chains in the city to list calories on their menus: "People are going to eat what they want; it doesn't matter what the menus say. People need to eat more vegetables and have common sense."[5]
headline_5	Efficacy: Are calorie counts effective at improving health?
pro_5_1	Calorie counts cause consumers to make healthier choices	 Calorie counts cause consumers to make healthier choices "Calorie Count On Menus Is Influencing Consumer Behavior, Says Technomic". Medical News Today. February 8, 2009: "A new survey conducted by foodservice consultants Technomic, Inc. revealed that the mandated calorie disclosure for New York City restaurants with 15 or more units is affecting what items consumers order and which restaurants they visit. Technomic found that 86 percent of New York City restaurant-goers were surprised by the calorie count information now listed on menus or menu boards, with 90 percent of them claiming that the calorie count was higher than expected. As a consequence, 82 percent say that calorie disclosure is affecting what they order and 60 percent say it is affecting where they visit. The researchers also found evidence that suggests a high level of consumer support for mandated disclosure of fat and sodium content in restaurant foods." 
pro_5_2	Calorie counts will be ignored by some, but help others	 Calorie counts will be ignored by some, but help others "A recipe for controversy" Los Angeles Times (editorial). August 10, 2009: "We're under no illusions that posting calorie counts on menus is the miracle-diet solution to the country's weight problem. Nobody goes to Taco Bell expecting to get health food; some consumers will pay no more attention to the calorie information than they do to the nutritional labels on packaged foods. Yet those labels do make a difference for many people"
pro_5_3	No proof calorie counts work, but a reasonable expectation	 No "proof" calorie counts work, but a reasonable expectation New York’s health commissioner, Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, said in 2008 in regards to legislation in New York City mandating calories on menus: "We don’t have 100 percent proof that it’s going to work, but we have a reasonable expectation it will be successful."[6] This responds to general arguments that "there are no assurances that it will work". This is always true with any policy, but should not hamstring efforts at making progress in solving major, systemic health problems through policies that have a good chance of working.
pro_5_4	Calorie counts are worth a try as they do no harm	 Calorie counts are worth a try as they do no harm Carl Bialik. "Do the Numbers Behind Calorie Counts Add Up?". The Wall Street Journal. July 7, 2009: Rachel Johnson, a professor of nutrition at the University of Vermont who co-authored a skeptical paper about the effect of menu labeling, said, “There is a need for additional research to determine if ultimately providing calorie labeling in restaurants will help stop the progression of overweight and obesity among the American public. Until this evidence is available, I take a ‘do no harm’ approach to the issue and I do not see that any harm would be done to consumers by providing this important information.”
pro_5_5	Customers will pay more attention to calorie counts over time.	Customers will pay more attention to calorie counts over time. While it may be true that some tests have shown that many restaurant goers do not necessarily pay attention to calorie counts, this will change over time as more customers learn that the information is there and learn how to read calorie counts appropriately and judge them according to one's optimal daily calorie intake. The tests that have been performed, therefore, do not indicate how customers will respond to a new culture of calorie counts over time.
con_5_1	Calorie counts are ineffective at compelling healthier choices	 Calorie counts are ineffective at compelling healthier choices Jeff Jacoby. "Want a warning label with those fries?" The Boston Globe. January 11, 2009: "with the rise of the Internet, Americans have access to more such information today than ever before. Yet Americans are also fatter than ever before. [...] Perhaps that is because hectoring people about calories doesn't usually make them thinner. It doesn't work when family members do it. It won't work any better when regulators do it. Not even in Massachusetts."
con_5_2	Labeling has not decreased obesity, why would calorie counts?	 Labeling has not decreased obesity, why would calorie counts? Steve Chapman. "Force-Fed the Facts". Reason. June 23, 2008: "The belief that more facts will generate wiser decisions is appealing but, at least in the realm of food, yet to be proved. No one seems to have noticed that as nutritional labeling has expanded, so have American waistlines. The federal government first required packaged foods to carry such information in the mid-1970s, and today, we are collectively fatter than we were then. What does that suggest? Either people don't notice what's in the food they buy, or they don't let the knowledge affect what goes in their mouths."
con_5_3	Customers are indifferent to calorie counts on menus	 Customers are indifferent to calorie counts on menus Ken Poulin, a consumer in New York said to USA Today in response to a 2008 New York law that required certain large restaurant chains in the city to list calories on their menus: "People are going to eat what they want; it doesn't matter what the menus say. People need to eat more vegetables and have common sense."[7]
con_5_4	Those dining out are less likely to care about calories	 Those dining out are less likely to care about calories Steve Chapman. "Force-fed the facts". Reason. June 23, 2008: "A study in the Journal of the American Dietetic Association found that people who dine out frequently are less likely to pay attention to nutritional data than people who eat mostly at home. It suggested that 'those who have a less nutritious diet are less likely to use food labels and have less interest in doing so.'" 
headline_6	Obesity crisis: Do calorie counts rightly respond to obesity crises?
pro_6_1	Obesity epidemics justify mandatory calorie counts	 Obesity epidemics justify mandatory calorie counts Obesity is a major problem around the world, and particularly in the United States. It is so bad that it certainly justifies taking decisive actions such as mandating the labeling of menus in restaurants.
pro_6_2	Calories on menus respond to unhealthy restaurants	 Calories on menus respond to unhealthy restaurants Margo G. Wootan, nutrition policy director at the nonprofit Center for Science in the Public Interest, said in 2008 following passage of legislation in California mandating calorie counts on menus: "States and cities are interested in menu labeling because of the growing role that chain food restaurants play in Americans' diet. Most Americans get a third of their calories from eating out. And, unfortunately, restaurant foods play a very problematic role in our diets."[8] 
pro_6_3	Calorie counting is a critical component of a healthy diet.	Calorie counting is a critical component of a healthy diet. While it is true that calorie counting alone is not sufficient for a healthy diet - as one could simply eat two hamburgers a day and meet their calorie requirements - it is true that it is a critical component of a healthy diet. It could be said to be the most important single factor for all diets, particularly when the focus is losing weight. That calorie counts are not the whole story should not be used against them. They are just the most important factor in reducing the obesity epidemic, making it critical for restaurants to list calories on menus. 
con_6_1	Calories alone are not a good measure of healthy menus	 Calories alone are not a good measure of healthy menus Joe Weisenthal. "Restaurant Calorie Counts Are Hazardous To Your Health". The Business Insider. August 11, 2009: "the problem is, a nudge is only worthwhile if it nudges you in the right direction. And there's reason to think calorie counts will nudge you the wrong way. Calorie counts create the illusion of some unified measure of healthiness, as if low calories always equalled good and high calories always equal bad. [...] But it's not nearly so simple. We're not cars, and food isn't measured on an octane count."
con_6_2	Calories on menus add to forbidden-fruit allure of high-calorie meals	 Calories on menus add to forbidden-fruit allure of high-calorie meals Frequently, when something is labelled as "bad", it becomes more desirable as a "forbidden fruit". Along these lines, some argue that adding calories to menus will cause some to see high-calorie meals as "forbidden fruit" and more desirable, subsequently back-firing and even increasing calorie in-take and health problems. 
con_6_3	Calorie counts may cause eating less now, more later	 Calorie counts may cause eating less now, more later Dr. David B. Allison, the incoming president of the Obesity Society and a professor of biostatistics and nutrition at the University of Alabama, Birmingham, said in February of 2008: "inadvertently encouraging patrons to consume lower-calorie foods that subsequently lead to greater total caloric intake because of poor satiating efficiency of the smaller calorie loads."[9]
headline_7	Changing menus: Will mandatory calorie counts compel restaurants to improve menus?
pro_7_1	Calories on menus pressure restaurants to make healthier meals	 Calories on menus pressure restaurants to make healthier meals "Fast Food Menu Calorie Counter Should Be National Law". Business Week. David Kiley. July 17, 2009: "But the point is that requiring this nationally would compel restaurants to re-invent their menus, because they wouldn’t want everything on the menu to be over 1,000 calories. They can still have the fat stuff. After all, some people can eat 1,500 calorie lunches and do just fine. But people will tend to make better choices when presented with the info at point of sale."
pro_7_2	Restaurants will not under-report calories and risk PR backlash.	Restaurants will not under-report calories and risk PR backlash. Restaurants that get caught under-reporting calories on their menus may face not only fines from the government, but also significant PR problems as stories of their manipulations reach and turn-off their customers.
con_7_1	Restaurants frequently under-report calories on menus	 Restaurants frequently under-report calories on menus "Calorie Disclosures Fail to Weigh Whole Enchilada". Wall Street Journal. July 8, 2009: "Scripps television stations sent several menu items to testing labs and found some big deviations from posted calorie content, most of them making menu items appear healthier than they are. For example, two tests of Applebee's Cajun-lime tilapia meal found about 400 calories, compared with the posted total of 310." This means that restaurants may simply choose to lower their reporting of calories instead of actually lower the calories in the foods they are serving. 
headline_8	Economics: Are mandatory calorie counts economically friendly?
pro_8_1	Calories on menus help reduce health care costs	 Calories on menus help reduce health care costs David Kiley. "Fast Food Menu Calorie Counter Should Be National Law". Business Week. July 17, 2009: "The Menu Education and Labeling Act, known as MEAL, would require restaurant chains with 20 or more stores to display calorie counts on their menu boards. The bill also would require printed menus at such chains to include calorie counts as well as information about trans fats, carbohydrates and sodium. [...] It seems to me that a national reg like this would do wonders to lower our healthcare costs. NYC estimates that it may save 30,000 cases of Diabetes. That’s from a statistic model, so who knows?"
pro_8_2	If calorie counts cost unhealthy restaurants customers, good riddens.	If calorie counts cost unhealthy restaurants customers, good riddens. If calorie counts cause restaurants that make very unhealthy food to lose customers, good riddens. Restaurants that are contributing to serious health illnesses should be punished by the market. Calorie counts help do this, and forces restaurants to respond by making healthier menus.
pro_8_3	Calorie counts incentivize healthier menus that attract new customers	 Calorie counts incentivize healthier menus that attract new customers If restaurants respond to mandatory calorie counts on menus by producing healthier foods, they will attract new, more health-conscious customers. This process should be seen as an opportunity instead of a burden. 
pro_8_4	Calorie counts a better option than taxing unhealthy foods	 Calorie counts a better option than taxing unhealthy foods David Kiley. "Fast Food Menu Calorie Counter Should Be National Law". Business Week. July 17, 2009: "We all have heard the idea of putting a tax on fast food and soda pop and the rest to help pay for public healthcare remedies. Before we do that, though, how about making NYC’s reg national and see how the marketplace works it out. That would seem to me to be a very conservative remedy before we consider taxes. Just give us the info at point-of sale, and let customers decide what’s best for them. [...] Beats more taxes."
pro_8_5	Restaurants can cheaply calculate calories with new software	 Restaurants can cheaply calculate calories with new software "Big restaurant chains say menu calorie count law doesn’t go far enough". Calorie Lab: "Providing calorie counts on menus requires restaurants to know how many calories are in different foods, of course, and the legislation says that restaurants can use software that includes the calorie counts of many ingredients to determine their foods’ calorie counts, rather than relying on more expensive analytical methods."
con_8_1	Calorie counts on menus would be very costly for restaurants.	Calorie counts on menus would be very costly for restaurants. Testing and counting the calories in all the different items on a restaurant menu is very expensive. In addition, printing out new menus with calorie counts would have a cost, and constantly ensuring the restaurants are meeting their calorie counts and state or federal regulations, will present new and unmeasurable staffing burdens and costs.
con_8_2	Calorie counts on menus will turn-off customers.	Calorie counts on menus will turn-off customers. Many restaurants will lose customers because they are forced to post calorie information on their menus, which is not particularly attractive or appetizing to customers. In general, by making dining out into an issue of health, instead of pleasure, the restaurant industry at large will lose customers.
con_8_3	Calorie counts over-crowd valuable menu space	 Calorie counts over-crowd valuable menu space Adding calorie counts to menus will general crowd menus with excess writing and information, making them less attractive and turning off customers. Scott Vinson, vice president at the National Council of Chain Restaurants, said in May of 2009, "the menu board is valuable real estate, and there's only so much information you can get on it."[10]
con_8_4	It is difficult for restaurants to keep calorie counts consistent.	It is difficult for restaurants to keep calorie counts consistent. It is a challenge in most restaurants - which do not work off of exact measurements of fat, butter, and olive oil - to keep the number of calories consistent within a meal each time it is prepared. This creates the risks that the calorie counts on a menu do not accurately portray the actual calorie contents of the dish, which creates a certain risk of lawsuits.
con_8_5	Calorie counts eliminate ability of restaurants to be spontaneous.	Calorie counts eliminate ability of restaurants to be spontaneous. How can restaurants be spontaneous with items on their menus if they always must list the calories in each item? They can't. Instead, they will have to "stick to the menu" more and more, and the creativity and spontaneity of chefs will dwindle, making restaurants less appealing to customers.  
con_8_6	Enforcing calorie counts laws will be expensive for the state.	Enforcing calorie counts laws will be expensive for the state. Enforcing calorie count laws will be very expensive, as it requires that the government test and re-test each restaurant's foods to ensure that they continue to live up to the calorie counts they have provided on their menu. Because there is often a very clear incentive to under-record the calorie count, enforcement could be very difficult and require significant staffing and funding on the part of the government.
headline_9	Voluntary: Is a mandatory system best, or would a voluntary one be better?
pro_9_1	Companies focus on profits, so will not voluntarily list calories	 Companies focus on profits, so will not voluntarily list calories Companies never do what is best for the customer voluntarily, unless it increases their profit margins. For most restaurants, that don't cater to the health conscious consumer, calorie counts will hurt their business, because it will give people who are generally uninformed a real look at what they're eating. While this may be best for people, most restaurants have no incentive to do it. 
pro_9_2	No restaurant will be disadvantaged if all are required to list calories.	No restaurant will be disadvantaged if all are required to list calories. By requiring all business to display calorie counts, any negative effect of such an act would have less of an impact on any restaurant, because everyone would have it, preventing consumers from wrongly thinking a restaurant that doesn't show calories is more healthy than one that doesn't.
con_9_1	Marketplace can encourage restaurants to voluntarily list calories	 Marketplace can encourage restaurants to voluntarily list calories If consumers care about calorie counts they will demand them on menus, eventually leading to businesses adopting calorie counts on their own out of necessity and desire for business. If consumers don't care then legislation to put them on menus is going to be utterly worthless. Why would consumers look at, or care about something they never even asked for in the first place?
headline_10	On or off menus: Is it better to have calorie info on menus vs. somewhere else?
pro_10_1	Calorie info is more effective on menus than elsewhere	 Calorie info is more effective on menus than elsewhere David Kiley. "Fast Food Menu Calorie Counter Should Be National Law". Business Week. July 17, 2009: "The restaurant industry, including McDonald’s, has been backing the proposed Labeling Education and Nutrition Act, called LEAN. That bill would require restaurants to have nutrition and calorie information “in plain sight” prior to the point of sale. But it wouldn’t force restaurants to add information to menus and menu boards where everyone knows it is most effective in deterring purchases of high fat food."
con_10_1	Consumers can find info off menus, calorie counts unnecessary	 Consumers can find info off menus, calorie counts unnecessary Steve Chapman. "Force-fed the facts". Reason. June 23, 2008: "the entire effort rests on assumptions that are unexamined and unfounded. The first is that consumers place a high value on the information being mandated. Actually, most of it is already accessible (online, among other ways) to anyone who is interested. In many places, it is available onsite, on tray liners or pamphlets."
