title	Civil unions vs. gay marriage
question	Which is the superior alternative: civil unions or gay marriage?
headline_1	Equality: Do civil unions offer sufficient equality to gays?
pro_1_1	Civil unions give gays equal benefits w/o changing marriage laws	 Civil unions give gays equal benefits w/o changing marriage laws "Civil unions a vital compromise". The Columbia Chronicle. March 16, 2009: "the Illinois Religious Freedom and Protection Civil Unions Act (HB 2234) passed a House committee and is now on its way to the House floor, potentially making Illinois the first state in the Midwest to legalize civil unions. [...] If the bill were to become a law, it would be a simple, but highly effective solution in allowing same sex couples the same benefits, rights and responsibilities of a marriage without changing Illinois marriage laws."
pro_1_2	Civil unions are not separate, but unequal if heterosexuals can do it	 Civil unions are not "separate, but unequal" if heterosexuals can do it Steve Swayne. "The Case for Federal Civil Unions." Independent Gay Forum. February 28, 2004: "And one more suggestion: To avoid charges of separate but unequal, make civil unions open to straight couples." 
pro_1_3	Homosexuality is wrong along with equal rights by gay marriage.	Homosexuality is wrong along with equal rights by gay marriage. This is a common argument against gay marriage, and sometimes underlies the position of those that reluctantly are willing to accept civil unions. But, the premise is that homosexuality is immoral and wrong, so efforts for full equality through gay marriage are misplaced. If civil unions are unequal, the argument goes, than it is, nonetheless, fitting. This argument is not supported by most advocates of civil unions with equal benefits, but by some.
pro_1_4	General statements in favor of civil unions over gay marriage	 General statements in favor of civil unions over gay marriage Barack Obama said in March of 2008: "I believe in civil unions that allow a same-sex couple to visit each other in a hospital or transfer property to each other."[1]
pro_1_5	Homosexuals have the same right to marry members of the opposite sex	Homosexuals have the same right to marry members of the opposite sex.  In so far as the equal protection clause of the U.S. Constitution applies to homosexuals and marriage, they have the same right to enter into the same type of traditional marriage contract.  Even without civil unions they are equal in the eyes of the law.
con_1_1	The right to marry is a basic human right	 The right to marry is a basic human right Andrew Sullivan. "Why 'civil union' isn't marriage." The New Republic. May 8, 2000: "Marriage, under any interpretation of American constitutional law, is among the most basic civil rights."
con_1_2	Civil unions are separate, but not equal	 Civil unions are "separate, but not equal" During the 50s and 60 in the United States, a segregationist principle was established called "separate but equal" under the Jim Crow laws of the time. This was struck down by the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, who wrote: "The history of our nation has demonstrated that separate is seldom, if ever, equal."[2] Civil unions are precisely the same arrangement, attempting to give gays a "separate" arrangement than marriage, while conferring "equal" benefits. But, because "separate can never be equal", civil unions can never equal. Civil unions, therefore, are unequal, segregationist, and discriminatory, just as were the "separate but equal" laws of the past.
con_1_3	Civil unions still separate, but equal if straights can do it.	Civil unions still "separate, but equal" if straights can do it. The idea that opening civil unions to straights solves the problem of civil unions be "separate, but unequal" fails a very simple test. While heterosexuals may have equal access to civil unions, do gays have equal access to marriage? No. Clearly, therefore, allowing straights to participate in civil unions while continuing to deny gays the right to marry does not nullify the argument that civil unions are akin to "separate but equal" and actually unequal. 
headline_2	Discrimination: Can civil-unions avoid second-class treatment and discrimination?
pro_2_1	Gay marriage violates freedoms of religious groups	 Gay marriage violates freedoms of religious groups While some argue that gay marriage violates  B.A. Robinson. "Same-sex marriages (SSM), civil unions & domestic partnerships". Ontario Consultants on Religious Tolerance. June 17, 2009: "For most Americans, marriage is a religious sacrament or ceremony. If the definition of marriage is changed to allow SSM, some religious individuals and groups feel that they will become at risk of having to violate their beliefs by being forced to marry same-sex couples."
pro_2_2	Many opponents of gay marriage are tolerant of civilian unions	 Many opponents of gay marriage are tolerant of civilian unions David Blankenhorn and Jonathan Rauch. "A Reconciliation on Gay Marriage." New York Times. February 21, 2009: "And while most Americans who favor keeping marriage as it has customarily been would prefer no legal recognition of same-sex unions at either the federal or the state level, we believe that they can live with federal civil unions — provided that no religious groups are forced to accept them as marriages. Many of these people may come to see civil unions as a compassionate compromise. For example, a PBS poll last fall found that 58 percent of white evangelicals under age 30 favor some form of legal same-sex union." [This all suggests that civil unions will be met with greater respect from the general American population, instead of the kind of recrimination that can lead to hatred and descrimination. 
con_2_1	Civil unions invite second-class treatment and discrimination	 Civil unions invite second-class treatment and discrimination "Civil Unions Are Not Enough. Six Key Reasons Why." Lambda Legal: "4. A separate and unequal status invites others to discriminate. When the government decides one group cannot have the same choice as others, it marks them as inferior and invites others to discriminate against them as well, including employers, businesses, police, emergency room workers and others." 
con_2_2	Civil unions have to be explained; unequal status with marriage	 Civil unions have to be explained; unequal status with marriage "Civil Unions Are Not Enough. Six Key Reasons Why." Lambda Legal: "3. A civil union has to be explained and does not get the same respect as a marriage"]: "Only the word married conveys the universally understood meaning applicable to the lifetime commitment many couples make. Marriage has a meaning unmatched by any other word. Regardless of whether civil unions and marriage offer the same benefits and obligations on paper, when the government relegates same-sex couples to civil unions rather than marriage, it forces them to explain the difference at work, at school, in hospitals and elsewhere. Those couples lose the respect and dignity that they deserve for their commitment to be responsible for each other." 
headline_3	Benefits: What debate surrounds civil union vs. gay marriage benefits?
pro_3_1	Civil unions would give gays all the benefits of marriage	 Civil unions would give gays all the benefits of marriage Steve Swayne. "The Case for Federal Civil Unions." Independent Gay Forum. February 28, 2004: "Imagine a scenario where Congress passes a law that extends federal benefits to couples that are joined in a civil union. This would respond to those who argue that the only way to obtain federal benefits is through legal marriage and assuages those who want to leave the definition of marriage untouched."
pro_3_2	Many laws already give civil unions equal benefits as marriage.	Many laws already give civil unions equal benefits as marriage. While many argue that civil unions sometimes deprive couples of certain rights given to those in gay marriages, many existing laws and many proposals and legislation on the table would see every single right given to married couples also given to couples with civil unions. Civil unions, therefore, do not inherently involve depriving couples of the various benefits outlined by the opposition. 
pro_3_3	Civil unions can be pushed to include equal benefits as marriage	 Civil unions can be pushed to include equal benefits as marriage Paul Varnell. "For Civil Unions". Chicago Free Press. March 8, 2006: "3. Civil unions in other states, unlike those in Connecticut and Vermont, would probably include a smaller number of benefits and entitlements than marriage, making them far from equal. But however hard this is to swallow, here again the point is to get a process started. Even if lessor variations on civil unions offer minimal benefits (e.g., hospital visitation), it is almost inevitable that as legislators and the public become comfortable with gay couples in formalized relationships, they will feel more comfortable adding additional benefits over time. [...] That model has worked well in California where gay couples have obtained more and more benefits with each legislative session. It has also worked in several European countries that have gradually added benefits, in some cases resulting in marriage itself. Most U.S. surveys show majority support for providing some benefits for gay couples. So let us work on obtaining those and then go on to others as the public comfort grows. If you cannot get all the justice you want, take what justice you can get and then work for more."
con_3_1	Civil couples meet greater legal complications than married gays	 Civil couples meet greater legal complications than married gays "Civil unions called second-class status." Sun Journal. February 17, 2008: "A commission established to study same-sex civil unions in New Jersey has found in its first report that civil unions create a 'second-class status' for gay couples, rather than giving them equality.[...]   [the report] find[s] that gay couples in Massachusetts, the only state that now allows same-sex marriage, do not experience some of the legal complications that those in New Jersey do [where there are civil unions]."
con_3_2	Civil unions are not necessarily recognized out of state	 Civil unions are not necessarily recognized out of state "Civil Unions Are Not Enough. Six Key Reasons Why." Lambda Legal: "Imposing Civil Unions Creates More Harms Outside The State. The federal government and some other states disrespect same-sex married couples when they cross state lines or deal with federal taxes or social security. When a couple's own state creates a separate status for them, it makes them even more vulnerable. As a result, same-sex couples are increasingly avoiding tourist destinations in states that bar them from legal protections, and national membership organizations and multi-state employers have begun to consider policies that avoid planning conventions, conferences or meetings in states where some members or employees may not feel that they are adequately safe as a legal matter (see the Safety Scale below). The more vulnerable couples are, the more time, trouble and expense for them to get protective legal documents (see the life-planning toolkit below)."
con_3_3	Partners can only make medical decisions in the registered state.	Partners can only make medical decisions in the registered state. With marriage, partners can make emergency decisions across state lines. This means that partners in civil unions may not be able to make decisions out of state. This is an additional reason why civil unions create unequal rights and second class status.[3]
con_3_4	Civil partners can only file taxes in registered state.	Civil partners can only file taxes in registered state. Married couples can file both federal and state tax returns jointly. Civil Union couples can only file jointly in the state of civil registration. This is an additional way in which civil unions create unequal rights and second class status.[4]
con_3_5	Civil partners must pay federal taxes on transfered gifts.	Civil partners must pay federal taxes on transfered gifts. Married partners can transfer gifts to each other without tax penalty. Civil partners do not pay state taxes, but are required to report federal taxes.[5]
con_3_6	Civil partners must pay federal taxes on death benefits.	Civil partners must pay federal taxes on death benefits. In the case of a married partner's death, a spouse receives any earned Social Security or veteran benefits. In the case of civil unions, partners do not receive Social Security or any other government benefits in the case of death.[6]
headline_4	Defining marriage: What role do different definitions of marriage play in this debate?
pro_4_1	Marriage should be defined as between a man and a woman	 Marriage should be defined as between a man and a woman Hilary Clinton: "Marriage has got historic, religious, and moral content that goes back to the beginning of time, and I think a marriage is as a marriage has always been: between a man and a woman."[7]
con_4_1	Marriage has always evolved; should now include gays	 Marriage has always evolved; should now include gays Andrew Sullivan. "Why 'civil union' isn't marriage." The New Republic. May 8, 2000: "The institution of civil marriage, like most human institutions, has undergone vast changes over the last two millennia. If marriage were the same today as it has been for 2,000 years, it would be possible to marry a twelve-year-old you had never met, to own a wife as property and dispose of her at will, or to imprison a person who married someone of a different race." [It should now evolve to include gays].
con_4_2	Marriage is not reserved solely for those that can reproduce	 Marriage is not reserved solely for those that can reproduce Andrew Sullivan. "Why 'civil union' isn't marriage." The New Republic. May 8, 2000: "[Many argue] that marriage is primarily about procreation. [...] The only trouble with this argument is that it ignores the fact that civil marriage is granted automatically to childless couples, sterile couples, couples who marry too late in life to have children, couples who adopt other people's children, and so on." 
headline_5	Institution of marriage: Do civil unions better protect the institution of marriage?
pro_5_1	Gay marriage undermines the institution of marriage.	Gay marriage undermines the institution of marriage. The institution of marriage is dependent on its traditional definition being maintained as between a man and woman, and the traditional family/reproduction/child-rearing/mother-father-role-models function of marriage being upheld as well. Gay marriage breaks from many of these traditional functions. Civil unions uphold the institution of marriage by not interfering with them.
pro_5_2	Civil unions avoid drawn out culture war on gay marriage	 Civil unions avoid drawn out culture war on gay marriageDavid Blankenhorn and Jonathan Rauch. "A Reconciliation on Gay Marriage." New York Times. February 21, 2009: "Linking federal civil unions to guarantees of religious freedom seems a natural way to give the two sides something they would greatly value while heading off a long-term, take-no-prisoners conflict. That should appeal to cooler heads on both sides, and it also ought to appeal to President Obama, who opposes same-sex marriage but has endorsed federal civil unions. A successful template already exists: laws that protect religious conscience in matters pertaining to abortion. These statutes allow Catholic hospitals to refuse to provide abortions, for example. If religious exemptions can be made to work for as vexed a moral issue as abortion, same-sex marriage should be manageable, once reasonable people of good will put their heads together. [...] In all sharp moral disagreements, maximalism is the constant temptation. People dig in, positions harden and we tend to convince ourselves that our opponents are not only wrong-headed but also malicious and acting in bad faith. In such conflicts, it can seem not only difficult, but also wrong, to compromise on a core belief. [...] But clinging to extremes can also be quite dangerous. In the case of gay marriage, a scorched-earth debate, pitting what some regard as nonnegotiable religious freedom against what others regard as a nonnegotiable human right, would do great harm to our civil society. When a reasonable accommodation on a tough issue seems possible, both sides should have the courage to explore it."
pro_5_3	Gay marriages violates religious freedoms	 Gay marriages violates religious freedoms B.A. Robinson. "Same-sex marriages (SSM), civil unions & domestic partnerships". Ontario Consultants on Religious Tolerance. June 17, 2009: "For most Americans, marriage is a religious sacrament or ceremony. If the definition of marriage is changed to allow SSM, some religious individuals and groups feel that they will become at risk of having to violate their beliefs by being forced to marry same-sex couples."
con_5_1	Gay marriage does not harm heterosexual marriages	 Gay marriage does not harm heterosexual marriages "Civil Unions Are Not Enough. Six Key Reasons Why." Lambda Legal: "In its decision that a civil union law in California (there called a domestic partnership law) did not provide equality under the constitution, that state’s highest court listed these top two reasons why civil unions are not enough: 'First, the exclusion of same-sex couples from the designation of marriage clearly is not necessary in order to afford full protection to all of the rights and benefits that currently are enjoyed by married opposite-sex couples; permitting same-sex couples access to the designation of marriage will not deprive opposite-sex couples of any rights and will not alter the legal framework of the institution of marriage, because same-sex couples who choose to marry will be subject to the same obligations and duties that currently are imposed on married opposite-sex couples."
con_5_2	Gay marriage is a negligible change to institution of marriage	 Gay marriage is a negligible change to institution of marriage Andrew Sullivan. "Why 'civil union' isn't marriage." The New Republic. May 8, 2000: "the inclusion of gay people is, in fact, a comparatively small change. It will affect no existing heterosexual marriage. It will mean no necessary change in religious teaching. If you calculate that gay men and women amount to about three percent of the population, it's likely they will make up perhaps one or two percent of all future civil marriages. The actual impact will be tiny. Compare it to, say, the establishment in this century of legal divorce. That change potentially affected not one percent but 100 percent of marriages and today transforms one marriage out of two. If any legal change truly represented the 'end of marriage,' it was forged in Nevada, not Vermont."
con_5_3	Gays can only undermine marriage if seen as morally depraved	 Gays can only undermine marriage if seen as morally depraved Andrew Sullivan. "Why 'civil union' isn't marriage." The New Republic. May 8, 2000: "how, exactly, does the freedom of a gay couple to marry weaken a straight couple's commitment to the same institution? The obvious answer is that since homosexuals are inherently depraved and immoral [according to opponents], allowing them to marry would inevitably spoil, even defame, the institution of marriage. It would wreck the marital neighborhood, so to speak, and fewer people would want to live there. Part of the attraction of marriage for some heterosexual males, the argument goes, is that it confers status. One of the ways it does this is by distinguishing such males from despised homosexuals. If you remove that social status, you further weaken an already beleaguered institution. [...] This argument is rarely made explicitly, but I think it exists in the minds of many who supported the DOMA." 
con_5_4	By offering alternative, civil unions undermine marriage	 By offering alternative, civil unions undermine marriage "Civil unions instead of marriage." Cranach. February 18th, 2009: "Heterosexuals have all but completely taken over the civil union option [in France] (92%, leaving just 8% for gays!). The civil unions give heterosexual couples financial advantages, but when one of them wants to leave, it is easy: 'If one or both of the partners declares in writing to the court that he or she wants out, the PACS is ended, with neither partner having claim to the other’s property or to alimony.' So much for family permanence."
con_5_5	Success rate of gay marriages is an inappropriate criteria	 Success rate of gay marriages is an inappropriate criteria Andrew Sullivan. "Why 'civil union' isn't marriage." The New Republic. May 8, 2000: "Even if you concede that gay men--being men--are, in the aggregate, less likely to live up to the standards of monogamy and commitment that marriage demands, this still suggests a further question: Are they less likely than, say, an insane person? A straight man with multiple divorces behind him? A murderer on death row? A president of the United States? The truth is, these judgments simply cannot be fairly made against a whole group of people."
headline_6	Symbol: Do civil unions unfairly deprive the symbol of marriage?
pro_6_1	Civil unions give what matters: equal benefits not marriage	 Civil unions give what matters: equal benefits not "marriage" Steve Swayne. "The Case for Federal Civil Unions." Independent Gay Forum. February 28, 2004: "When Congress starts to consider the FMA, here's hoping a courageous lawmaker will introduce a federal civil union bill. Let's debate whether gay couples merit equality under the law, not whether straight couples can keep the word “marriage” to themselves. Let's discuss the special rights that empty-nest and childless straight couples currently enjoy and seriously examine what happens if we extend these rights to gay couples with children."
pro_6_2	Civil union couples can say they're married	 Civil union couples can say they're "married" Paul Varnell. "For Civil Unions". Chicago Free Press. March 8, 2006: "Once you are in a civil union, you can refer to yourself as “married” if you like. A friend in Vermont who is in a civil union says he and his partner refer to themselves as married. So does everyone else. A friend in Norway reports the same thing: 'Oh, you two are married.'"
con_6_1	Word marriage is symbolic, should not be denied to gays	 Word "marriage" is symbolic, should not be denied to gays In its decision declaring the denial of the right to marry unconstitutional, Connecticut’s highest court said: "We agree with the following point made by the Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund, Inc., in its amicus brief: 'Any married couple [reasonably] would feel that they had lost something precious and irreplaceable if the government were to tell them that they no longer were 'married' and instead were in a 'civil union.' The sense of being 'married' — what this conveys to a couple and their community, and the security of having others clearly understand the fact of their marriage and all it signifies — would be taken from them. These losses are part of what same-sex couples are denied when government assigns them a 'civil union' status. If the tables were turned, very few heterosexuals would countenance being told that they could enter only civil unions and that marriage is reserved for lesbian and gay couples. Surely there is [a] constitutional injury when the majority imposes on the minority that which it would not accept for itself."[8]
con_6_2	You cannot ask a lover, will you civil union me?.	You cannot ask a lover, "will you civil union me?". There is significant importance placed on asking the question, "will you marry me?". Civil unions essentially deny homosexuals the ability to ask that beautiful, long-valued, important question? This is wrong on many levels.  
headline_7	Compromise: Are civil unions a good compromise? Can compromise be justified?
pro_7_1	Civil unions are a reasonable compromise and way forward	 Civil unions are a reasonable compromise and way forward David Blankenhorn and Jonathan Rauch. "A Reconciliation on Gay Marriage." New York Times. February 21, 2009: "Linking federal civil unions to guarantees of religious freedom seems a natural way to give the two sides something they would greatly value while heading off a long-term, take-no-prisoners conflict. That should appeal to cooler heads on both sides, and it also ought to appeal to President Obama, who opposes same-sex marriage but has endorsed federal civil unions." 
pro_7_2	Gay marriage is unlikely now; civil unions are a practical step	 Gay marriage is unlikely now; civil unions are a practical step David Blankenhorn and Jonathan Rauch. "A Reconciliation on Gay Marriage." New York Times. February 21, 2009: "Most, of course, want the right to marry, and nothing less. But federal recognition of same-sex marriage — leave aside what you think about the merits — is not likely in the near future. The federal Defense of Marriage Act forbids it. Barack Obama and most other Democratic presidential candidates opposed gay marriage. And most Americans continue to oppose it." [Civil unions, therefore, are a practical step forward toward gay rights and equality].
con_7_1	Civil union compromise is inappropriate half-step to equality	 Civil union "compromise" is inappropriate half-step to equality Del. Anne R. Kaiser (D-Dist. 14) of Olney said following a major Maryland Court of Appeals case on civil unions in 2007: "Civil unions may be half a loaf, but I’m not sure how many other citizens would want only half their civil rights".[9]
headline_8	Getting to marriage: Are civil unions a good stepping stone to marriage?
pro_8_1	Civil unions are a positive step toward gay marriage	 Civil unions are a positive step toward gay marriage "Civil Unions. The Blankenhorn-Rauch peace proposal on marriage." Hunter of Justice. February 22, 2009: "The most important aspect of the Blankenhorn-Rauch proposal is that it implicitly establishes what I agree is the right threshold for moving out of gridlock: support for civil unions that are materially equal to marriage, paired with some degree of opt-outs for entities that are thoroughly religious. [...] LGBT rights advocates can still pursue access to marriage itself on equal terms, which I also support, since the difference in designation is obviously intended to function as a signaling device for communicating second-class status. But those battles would be fought against a background and baseline of having had the material benefits already equalized."
pro_8_2	Civil unions will make people comfortable with idea of gay marriage	 Civil unions will make people comfortable with idea of gay marriage Paul Varnell. "For Civil Unions". Chicago Free Press. March 8, 2006: "Once you are in a civil union, you can refer to yourself as “married” if you like. A friend in Vermont who is in a civil union says he and his partner refer to themselves as married. So does everyone else. A friend in Norway reports the same thing: 'Oh, you two are married.' It seems clear that once people are comfortable with thinking and speaking of same-sex couples as 'married,' their willingness to accept gay marriage itself is sure to follow."
con_8_1	Civil unions make it harder to pass gay marriage	 Civil unions make it harder to pass gay marriage "gay marriage v. civil union" Progressive U. February 28th, 2008: "Even though civil unions seem to be a step forward for the rights of gay Americans, civil unions can also been seen as a step to eliminate the chance for full equal marriage rights granted to those couples granted the rights of the terms 'spouse' and 'married'."
con_8_2	If gays get civil unions, why withhold marriage?	 If gays get civil unions, why withhold "marriage"? Andrew Sullivan. "Why 'civil union' isn't marriage." The New Republic. May 8, 2000: "To concede that gay adults are responsible citizens, to concede that there will be no tangible damage to the institution of marriage by their inclusion within it, and then to offer gay men and women a second-class institution called civil union makes no sense." [While it may be "a step in the right direction", it is always unjustified to take steps - such as civil unions - that cannot be justified on principle. 
headline_9	Religion: Do faiths define marriage a certain way, and does this matter?
pro_9_1	The Bible defines marriage as between only a man and woman.	The Bible defines marriage as between only a man and woman. Candidate Barack Obama said Nelsonville, Ohio during the 2008 US presidential elections, in March of 2008: "I believe in civil unions that allow a same-sex couple to visit each other in a hospital or transfer property to each other. I don't think it should be called marriage, but I think that it is a legal right that they should have that is recognized by the state. If people find that controversial, then I would just refer them to the Sermon on the Mount, which I think is, in my mind, for my faith, more central than an obscure passage in Romans. That's my view. But we can have a respectful disagreement on that."[10]
pro_9_2	Gay marriage violates religious freedoms	 Gay marriage violates religious freedoms B.A. Robinson. "Same-sex marriages (SSM), civil unions & domestic partnerships". Ontario Consultants on Religious Tolerance. June 17, 2009: "For most Americans, marriage is a religious sacrament or ceremony. If the definition of marriage is changed to allow SSM, some religious individuals and groups feel that they will become at risk of having to violate their beliefs by being forced to marry same-sex couples."
con_9_1	Denying gays marriage is not justified on religious grounds	 Denying gays marriage is not justified on religious grounds Andrew Sullivan. "Why 'civil union' isn't marriage." The New Republic. May 8, 2000: "Equally, an appeal to the religious content of marriage is irrelevant in this case. No one is proposing that faith communities be required to change their definitions of marriage, unless such a community, like Reform Jewry, decides to do so of its own free will. The question at hand is civil marriage and only civil marriage. In a country where church and state are separate, this is no small distinction. Many churches, for example, forbid divorce. But civil divorce is still legal. Many citizens adhere to no church at all. Should they be required to adhere to a religious teaching in order to be legally married?"
headline_10	Church and State: Doesn't defining marriage violate the inferred separation of church and state?
pro_10_1	If the government affects the religious term of marriage it is in violation.	If the government affects the religious term of "marriage" it is in violation. In the United States, the Supreme Court has ruled to infer a "separation of church and state" all the way from federal to local levels. In this way if the government put the millenia-old definition of marriage as "man and woman" into the legal system that is purely in violation of this legal inferrance. If the government redefines a religious term, both in origin and use, than the government would effectively violate the "separation of church and state". It would be paramount as to saying that Parliament in the U.K. would redefine Queen Elizabeth II as King Elizabeth II. Obviously we can see that this is something that violates the inferrance of the Supreme Court to establish a "separation of church and state".
con_10_1	Marriage is more than a religious practice.	Marriage is more than a religious practice. There are legal issues independent of any religious dogma with regard to marriage.  The extension of the right not to incriminate oneself to one's spouse is an example.  The religious and legal definitions of marriage are distinct, i.e. one may become legally divorced but if one is Catholic the church may refuse to recognize one's status as divorced.  Hence the Church's definition of marriage and the State's definition are distinct and legally independent.
headline_11	Children: What are the pros and cons for children of same-sex couples?
con_11_1	Children of civil couples are not protected by child-support laws.	Children of civil couples are not protected by child-support laws. In the case of divorce, heterosexuals may have a legally-binding financial obligation to spouses and children. In the case of the dissolution of civil unions, no such spousal or child benefits are guaranteed or required out of state.[11]
con_11_2	Gay parents have weaker custody right without marriage	 Gay parents have weaker custody right without marriage Sharon M. Grosfeld, a family law attorney and a former state senator and delegate, said following a 2007 Maryland Court of Appeals case on civil unions: "Without the legal status of marriage, the question of custody when same-sex partners break up and children are involved is much more complicated. If a child is the biological child of one party and not the other, what are the legal rights of that other party, particularly if the child was nurtured by the other party since birth?"[12]
con_11_3	Civil couples cannot sponsor spouses or family for citizenship.	Civil couples cannot sponsor spouses or family for citizenship. U.S. citizens and legal residents can sponsor their spouses and family members for immigration. U.S. citizens and legal residents cannot sponsor non-legal spouses or family members.[13] 
headline_12	Videos
