title	Filibuster
question	Is the filibuster a valuable tool in government, or should it be abandoned?
headline_1	Minority rights: Does the filibuster help uphold minority rights? Is this good?
pro_1_1	The filibuster helps protect the will of the minority	 The filibuster helps protect the will of the minority Joanne Mariner. "In Defense of the Filibuster". History News Network. December 9, 2002: "The use of the filibuster is undemocratic, and unquestionably so, to the extent that democracy is equated with simple majority rule. But if democracy is seen as a more complex process in which minorities, too, deserve a voice--and which even recognizes that public officials who belong to a political minority may nonetheless represent majority views on certain issues--then filibusters may have a legitimate role to play."
pro_1_2	Filibuster blocks small majorities ramming through unpopular laws	 Filibuster blocks small majorities ramming through unpopular laws Brien Jackson. "In Defense of the Filibuster". Below the Fold. February 17th, 2009: "having the filibuster as an option still restricts a relatively small majority that may not even acurrately reflect the will of the electorate from ramming through unpopular aspects of their agenda. [...] The most picture-perfect argument for the Senate is, ironically, that old bugaboo, the 2000 election. Until Jim Jeffords bailed on the GOP, Republicans controlled the House by 9 votes, had the majority of a 50-50 Senate split based on the tiebreaking vote of the Vice-President, and, of course, had control of the White House despite getting fewer votes for the office than the Democratic candidate. Additionally, they lost seats in both houses of Congress in 2000, including 4 in the Senate. Is there any real argument that this unified government was the result of the country’s overwhelming preference for the GOP agenda? Obviously not." It should be noted that this argument has less to do with minority rights than actually preserving what might be a slight majority view in the public, but which is not shared and supported by a majority of the people's representatives.
con_1_1	Filibuster undermines democratic principle of majority rule	 Filibuster undermines democratic principle of majority rule Jean Edward Smith. "Filibusters: The Senate’s Self-Inflicted Wound." New York Times. March 1, 2009: "The routine use of the filibuster as a matter of everyday politics has transformed the Senate’s legislative process from majority rule into minority tyranny. Leaving party affiliation aside, it is now possible for the senators representing the 34 million people who live in the 21 least populous states — a little more than 11 percent of the nation’s population — to nullify the wishes of the representatives of the remaining 88 percent of Americans."
con_1_2	Filibuster creates unintended system requiring 60-vote majority	 Filibuster creates unintended system requiring 60-vote majority Ezra Klein. "Debate the filibuster. The filibuster would want it that way." The American Prospect. February 17th, 2009: "Instead of some loophole forcing a 60-vote majority, let's simply decide what the Senate should be. If it's to be a 60-vote institution, then make that the number required to pass a bill. If it's meant to be a majority body, then let that vision rule the day. But whatever the decision, it should be legitimate, the product of, well, thoughtful and sustained debate [not the result of the filibuster exploiting loopholes in the Senate rules]. 
con_1_3	Filibuster wrongly burdens majority party	 Filibuster wrongly burdens majority party Randy Barnett, one of the burgeoning field of Volokh conspirators, argued against the filibuster on the following grounds: "The contemporary filibuster is a polite affair. Charles Schumer does not talk through the night, bleary eyed and exhausted. Why not? Couldn’t the filibuster be broken if the Republicans forced the Democrats to go 24/7? No. Because the 24/7 option actually gives an advantage to the minority. Why? In order to force a 24/7 filibuster, the majority must maintain a quorum at all times, but the minority need only have one Senator present to maintain the filibuster. So 24/7 both exhausts and distracts the majority, while allowing the minority the opportunity to rest and carry on their ordinary business. [Emphasis added.] No modern filibuster has been broken by the 24/7 option. For more on this, see my post entitled Update on Filibusters."[3]
headline_2	Constitutionality: Is the filibuster consistent with the US Constitution?
pro_2_1	Constitution empowers Senate to set rule, including on filibuster	 Constitution empowers Senate to set rule, including on filibuster "A response to arguments that a filibuster on the Estrada nomination is unprecedented or inappropriate." National Women's Law Center: "Filibustering or requiring cloture on a judicial nomination is not 'extra-constitutional.' The Constitution simply gives the Senate the duty to 'advise and consent' to judicial nominations and leaves it to the Senate to carry out its responsibility in accordance with its own rules; it does not specify that the vote must be by a simple majority. Requiring cloture to end debate on a nomination is permitted under Senate Rule XXII. [The Filibuster is, therefore, Constitutional]."
pro_2_2	Eliminating filibuster requires difficult Constitutional amendment	 Eliminating filibuster requires difficult Constitutional amendment Brien Jackson. "In Defense of the Filibuster". Below the Fold. February 17th, 2009: "But these sorts of unfortunate peculiarities have little to do with the origins and intent of the filibuster and everything to do with the way the authors of the Constitution designed the Senate . And because amending the Constitution is such an impossible proposition, we’re probably stuck with them."
con_2_1	The US Constitution makes no provision for the filibuster	 The US Constitution makes no provision for the filibuster It is true that Senate rules provide provision for the Filibuster. But, these rules are not established in the Constitution. The Constitution only provides the authority to the Senate to establish such rules. This in no way means that the filibuster is protected by the Constitution, as is a very common misconception about the filibuster. The Senate is free, therefore, to vote to change the rules of the Senate and abolish the filibuster without amending the Constitution in any way. Getting rid of the filibuster is, therefore, much easier than many supporters of the filibuster often argue. 
con_2_2	Filibuster perverts rules meant to promote debate	 Filibuster perverts rules meant to promote debate Ezra Klein. "Debate the filibuster. The filibuster would want it that way." The American Prospect. February 17th, 2009: "The filibuster is a byproduct of the Senate's right to unlimited debate. The idea was that the Senate would be a body of reasoned deliberation. The rule was meant to promote argument, not require super majorities. Indeed, it wasn't until Woodrow Wilson that the Senate could even vote down a senator trying to talk a bill to death. They changed the rules because the right to unlimited debate had changed: It had been transformed from a guardian of democratic deliberation into a tool for undemocratic obstruction. [...] So get rid of the filibuster. Now that the filibuster doesn't even require excess speech, it's come completely unmoored from the right to unlimited debate." 
headline_3	Tradition: Does filibuster fit with US traditions, intentions of Framers?
pro_3_1	Filibuster fits framers' distrust of govt, desire for checks	 Filibuster fits framers' distrust of govt, desire for checks  Bill Frenzel. "Defending the dinosaur: the case for not fixing the filibuster". Brookings Review. Summer 1995: "Filibuster haters claim they are contrary to the spirit of the Constitution because they require extraordinary majorities. The rationale is that the Framers, who created a majority system and rejected supermajorities, would be horrified by filibusters. Perhaps, but don't be too sure. Remember that no one has dug up a Framer lately to testify to the accuracy of this theory. [...] The Framers created our system based on their profound distrust of government. They loaded the system with checks and balances to make it work very slowly... [the filibuster agrees well with this]"
con_3_1	The Founding Fathers would not approve of the filibuster	 The Founding Fathers would not approve of the filibuster Elliot Richardson. "The Case Against the Senate Filibuster". Fair Vote. 2005: "The Founding Fathers would be appalled to learn that the framework they labored so valiantly to construct had been perverted by the filibuster."
con_3_2	Filibuster has been restricted; not enshrined in tradition	 Filibuster has been restricted; not enshrined in tradition The Filibuster has been consistently restricted through US history, in 1917 with the cloture rule and, in 1975, with the reduction of the number of votes required to end a filibuster from 67 to 60. This demonstrates that the Filibuster is not enshrined in tradition, can be changed, and can even be gotten rid of. 
con_3_3	The filibuster only became acceptable in recent decades	 The filibuster only became acceptable in recent decades It was originally looked down upon in the 19th century, and hardly ever used. Only in recent years did it become acceptable in politics.
con_3_4	The filibuster is outdated and uncivilized in a modern democracy	 The filibuster is outdated and uncivilized in a modern democracy Elliot Richardson. "The Case Against the Senate Filibuster". 2005: "Just as we forswear using chemical weapons in war, senators should forswear using filibusters in legislative combat. Such scorched-earth tactics may win a battle but leave the democratic process in ruins."
con_3_5	The term filibuster reflects its historic infamy	 The term "filibuster" reflects its historic infamy The term "filibuster" comes from words describing pirates and vigilantes, and was meant to convey the idea of "hijacking" debate and the functions of Congress. It should now be given such infamy, and be abandoned.
headline_4	Legislative process: Is the filibuster valuable to the legislative process?
pro_4_1	Filibuster helps flag controversial issues for the public	 Filibuster helps flag controversial issues for the public Joanne Mariner. "In Defense of the Filibuster". History News Network. December 9, 2002: "Because of its potent nature, the filibuster is a means not simply of counting heads, but of assessing the intensity of views on a given subject. Simply put, the use of the filibuster raises the stakes in a debate, signaling to the public that an issue, or a nominee, is worth getting exercised over."
pro_4_2	Filibuster provides important checks and balances	 Filibuster provides important checks and balances Ralph Neas, president of People for the American Way, which took the lead in opposing John Ashcroft's appointment to the Supreme Court. "Regardless of who's in charge of the Senate, I would never advocate doing away with the filibuster. It's one of the few checks and balances left in the system."[4] 
con_4_1	Filibuster hamstrings the productive passage of legislation	 Filibuster hamstrings the productive passage of legislation Elliot Richardson. "The Case Against the Senate Filibuster". 2005: "If the Senate operated by majority rule, Congress would have passed a campaign finance reform law last year. It also would have adopted the first major telecommunications reform law in 50 years, reined in the giveaway of taxpayer-owned gold to private mining companies and perhaps adopted a compromise health-care reform. [...] Each of these bills was killed in Congress because a filibuster frenzy has made majority rule the exception rather than the rule in the Senate. Filibusters also took place on school funding, toxic-waste cleanup and other legislation."
con_4_2	Value of filibuster against bad legislation is not valid	 Value of filibuster against "bad" legislation is not valid Elliot Richardson. "The Case Against the Senate Filibuster". 2005: "The issue is not whether we are for or against whatever bill is the filibuster's victim. There are times when a nation's future may depend on whether its citizens can rise above policy differences and take a stand for democracy. This is such a time. At stake is our government's ability to make decisions and take action."
con_4_3	Threat of filibuster is used to extort pork giveaways	 Threat of filibuster is used to extort pork giveaways Elliot Richardson. "The Case Against the Senate Filibuster". 2005: "In May 1994, for example, our government was forced to give away $10 billion of gold on federal land. Why? Because filibuster threats blocked efforts to fix the Gold Rush-era mining law requiring this giveaway and dozens more in the months ahead, giveaways of billions of dollars that come out of our pockets as taxpayers."
con_4_4	During turmoil, filibusters impede government progress	 During turmoil, filibusters impede government progress George Kenney. "Kill the filibuster rule." Los Angeles Times. March 5, 2009: "During a time when the nation will need a lot of legislation quickly, it seems absurd that the Senate binds itself to an obsolete supermajority rule requiring 60 votes to end a filibuster and force a vote. What's so magic about the number 60? Why should 41 senators -- coincidentally the current number of Republicans -- be able to block public policy indefinitely?"
headline_5	Presidential nominees: Is filibustering presidential nominees ever appropriate?
pro_5_1	Filibuster is justified to block extreme nominations	 Filibuster is justified to block extreme nominations Joanne Mariner. "A Good Tool for the Good Fight. In Defense of the Filibuster". Counter Punch. November 26, 2002: "From now on, with the incoming Republican majority in the Senate, it will take a Democratic filibuster to prevent the confirmation of President Bush's most extreme judicial nominees. But it must be emphasized that in such dire cases, a filibuster--by which a minority of forty-one senators can block an appointment to the bench--is justified, reasonable and necessary."
pro_5_2	Filibuster ensures better justices are nominated and confirmed	 Filibuster ensures better justices are nominated and confirmed John O. McGinnis & Michael B. Rappaport. "In Praise of Supreme Court Filibusters". National Review Online. June 25, 2009: "we believe that the routine use of the filibuster rule will obtain better justices, where better is defined as justices who have better qualifications and whose jurisprudential positions are more broadly supported than they would be in a world without the filibuster rule." 
pro_5_3	Filibuster is necessary check on permanent judicial appointments	 Filibuster is necessary check on permanent judicial appointments While legislation can be repealed or amended, judges are appointed for life. This makes a powerful check on judicial appointments, such as the filibuster, justified.
con_5_1	Filibustering presidential nominees violates balance of powers	 Filibustering presidential nominees violates balance of powers William Kristol. "Break the Filibuster". The Weekly Standard. May 9th, 2005: "There is no rationale for a filibuster, however, when the Senate is acting under Article 2 in advising and consenting to presidential nominations. As Crockett points out, here the president is 'the originator and prime mover. If he wants to make the process more burdensome, perhaps through lengthy interviews or extraordinary background checks, he can.' The Senate's role is to accept or reject the president's nominees, just as the president has a responsibility to accept or reject a bill approved by both houses of Congress. There he does not have the option of delay. Nor should Congress have the option of delay in what is fundamentally an executive function of filling the nonelected positions in the federal government. In other words--to quote Crockett once more-- it is inappropriate for the Senate to employ a delaying tactic normally used in internal business--the construction of legislation--in a nonlegislative procedure that originates in a coequal branch of government."
headline_6	Reform: Is reforming the filibuster possible, or is getting rid of it needed?
pro_6_1	Eliminating filibuster is excessive; reforms are sufficient.	Eliminating filibuster is excessive; reforms are sufficient. There are many possible reforms of the filibuster that address many of the concerns raised by opponents to it. Putting the onus on the filibustering party to be present during a filibuster, instead of the majority party is one proposed reform. Lowering the number of the number of a "filibuster-proof" majority from 60 to 55, or so, is another proposed method. Collectively, such reforms are perhaps a better way of eliminating any negative elements of the filibuster, while avoiding the difficult process of amending the Constitution to get rid of it. And, this suggests that abandoning the filibuster is an excessive measure. Reforming it is sufficient.
con_6_1	Reforming the filibuster is a band-aid; it needs to be abandoned.	Reforming the filibuster is a band-aid; it needs to be abandoned. All approaches to reforming the filibuster do not fully address the problem, and simply act as a band-aid to the larger problem. 
headline_7	General: Quotes from persons/orgs generally for or against filibusters
pro_7_1	General statements in favor of the filibuster	General statements in favor of the filibuster Ralph Neas, president of People for the American Way, which took the lead in opposing John Ashcroft's appointment to the Supreme Court. "Regardless of who's in charge of the Senate, I would never advocate doing away with the filibuster," he said. "It's one of the few checks and balances left in the system."[5]
con_7_1	General statements against the filibuster	General statements against the filibuster "The Senate and the Filibuster--Posner". The Becker Posner Blog. July 5, 2009: "The filibuster is an incomprehensible device of government. A supermajority rule, whether it is the rule of unanimity in criminal jury trials or the supermajority rules for amending the Constitution, makes sense when the cost of a false positive (convicting an innocent person, or making an unsound amendment to the Constitution) substantially exceeds the cost of a false negative. But it is hard to see the applicability of that principle to Senate voting, given the other barriers to enacting legislation."
