title	Needle exchanges
question	Are needle exchanges a good idea? Do they improve public health/safety?
headline_1	Fighting HIV/AIDS: Do needle exchanges help fight HIV/AIDS?
pro_1_1	Needle exchanges are key to fighting HIV/AIDS, saving lives	 Needle exchanges are key to fighting HIV/AIDS, saving lives Debra L. O’Neill. "Needle Exchange Programs: A Review of the Issues". Missouri Institute of Mental Health. September 27, 2004: "Research has shown needle exchange programs (NEPs) offer a number of public health benefits in the prevention and reduction of IDUs’ exposure to HIV, HBV, HCV and other diseases. For example: 􀂃 New Haven, Connecticut found a one-third reduction in HIV prevalence after its NEP had been in operation for only 4 months. 􀂃 Researchers found an 18.6% average annual decrease in HIV seroprevalence in cities that had introduced an NEP, compared to an 8.1% annual increase in HIV seroprevalence in cities that had never introduced NEPs. 􀂃 HIV prevalence among NEP attenders in a Canadian city was low, even though high-risk behaviors were common. 􀂃 IDUs in Seattle who had formerly attended an NEP were found to be more likely than non-exchangers to reduce the frequency of injection, to stop injecting altogether, and to remain in drug treatment, while new users of the NEP were five times more likely to enter drug treatment than never-exchangers."
pro_1_2	HIV epidemic justifies needle exchanges	 HIV epidemic justifies needle exchanges Alan Franciscus. "Needle Exchange - A Matter of Public Health" HCV Advocate. April/June 2003: "With over a 100 people in the United States becoming infected with HIV, HCV, or HBV every day as a result of injection drug use, it is clear that we must do more. We must continue to educate people about the harms of drug use, particularly injection drug use. We must pay attention to the expertise and knowledge of public health officials and scientists who urge that sterile syringes be made legally available to people who inject drugs." 
pro_1_3	Drug addicts cannot make recovery if they acquire HIV	 Drug addicts cannot make recovery if they acquire HIV David Lewis. "Should needle exchange be publicly funded?". PBS: "Many intravenous drug users eventually overcome their habit and become productive members of society -- but not if they are afflicted with AIDS. Needle exchange programs are an effective and obvious strategy to prevent the spread of this devastating disease."  
pro_1_4	Needle exchanges help fight spread of disease	 Needle exchanges help fight spread of disease Mark Cichocki. "Why Do We Need Needle Exchange?". About.com. September 3, 2007: "Needle exchange programs have also achieved reductions in the rate of hepatitis infection, which can also be spread through sharing needles. In Tacoma, WA, clients of a needle exchange program were up to eight times less likely to contract Hepatitis B or C than non-client IVDUs."
con_1_1	HIV transmission has increased despite needle exchanges	 HIV transmission has increased despite needle exchanges David Noffs, Founder and Executive Director of the Life Education Center. "Should needle exchange be publicly funded?". PBS: "Although promoters claim that needle exchange programs do not encourage drug use, there has been a major increase in heroin use since needle exchange programs have become widespread. Heroin use by American teens has doubled in the past 5 years. Dr. Lucy Sullivan of the Australian Centre for Independent Studies states that hepatitis prevalence among intravenous drug users is 65%, suggesting that free needles are not having their intended effect of preventing exchange of body fluids. Sullivan also states that 'There is no sign of an impact on the rate of decline (of HIV incidence rates) with the introduction of needle distribution in 1992.' (Sullivan, 1997)." 
con_1_2	Drug addicts transfer HIV in many ways other than by needles.	Drug addicts transfer HIV in many ways other than by needles. There are many ways by which drug-addicts can transfer bodily fluids between one-another. Needles are only one of many pathways. Sharing of mixing water for heroin another significant problem, and needle exchanges do not necessarily address this issue.
con_1_3	Needle exchanges fight disease at expense of bigger drug problem	 Needle exchanges fight disease at expense of bigger drug problem Aaron Lawrence. "Why a Needle-Exchange Program is a Bad Idea". Record. August 26, 2005: "The drug problem is arguably bigger and more threatening to public health and stability than disease problems. And, yet, needle exchanges seem to place the interests of fighting diseases over the interests of fighting drugs, in so far as needle exchanges actually enable drug-use, in order to reduce the spread of disease."
con_1_4	Needle exchanges don't save lives; cause drug-related deaths	 Needle exchanges don't save lives; cause drug-related deaths Aaron Lawrence. "Why a Needle-Exchange Program is a Bad Idea". Record. August 26, 2005: "Addicts still are prone to death, perhaps not from HIV, but from overdose, collapsed veins, poisoned dope, or the violence and criminality that go along with the illicit drug trade."
con_1_5	Needle exchanges no panacea against spread of disease	 Needle exchanges no panacea against spread of disease Toni Meyer. "Making the case for opposing needle exchange". New Jersey Family Policy Council. November 16, 2007: "Disease Epidemics: Both scientific and anecdotal evidence indicates that NEPs have failed to provide a prevention panacea for drug abusers against the dangers of HIV, hepatitis, and other health risks, which continue to increase at alarming rates."
con_1_6	General statements against needle exchanges	 General statements against needle exchanges Dr. David Murray, chief scientist at the Office of National Drug Control Policy: "Needles are not the magic bullet. We are being politically pressured to make this decision (in favor of needle exchange). But it's time to rethink if there's a more humane, effective public health response than continuing to support injection drug use."[1]
headline_2	Principles: What are the main pro/con arguments on principles?
pro_2_1	Needle exchanges rightly place harm reduction over all else	 Needle exchanges rightly place harm reduction over all else Alan Franciscus. "Needle Exchange - A Matter of Public Health". Hepatitis. April/June 2003: "Harm reduction holds that the health and well-being of the individual is of primary concern; if individuals are unwilling or unable to change addictive behaviors at this time, they should not be denied services. Attempts should be made to reduce the harm of their habits as much as possible. This approach to addiction is viewed by some as compassionate and pragmatic; by others as selfish and dangerous."
pro_2_2	Needle exchanges don't condone drugs; they offer care	 Needle exchanges don't condone drugs; they offer care David Lewis. "Should needle exchange be publicly funded?". PBS: "Providing clean syringes and needles to intravenous drug users does not say that we condone their behavior: it says that we still care about them and that we want them and their partners to be healthy as a first step in becoming a productive member of society again." 
pro_2_3	Needle exchanges protect public, not just drug addicts.	Needle exchanges protect public, not just drug addicts. While opponents may argue that drug-abusers must live with the consequences of their decisions to use dirty needles, the issue is not just about helping drug-addicts avoid diseases. It is also about protecting the public from the consequences of the spread of these diseases. The consequences include higher risks of infection as well as higher taxpayer costs in providing the health care for more sick people. Also, needle exchanges help protect the families of drug-addicts from the possibility of their loved-one acquiring a potentially fatal disease such as HIV. 
con_2_1	Needle exchange harm-reduction puts expediency over principle.	Needle exchange harm-reduction puts expediency over principle. There are certain principles that should not be sacrificed to expediency. The individual choice to do drugs should be met sternly with the principle that it is wrong and that an individual that chooses to do drugs should suffer the consequences on their own, without burdening other taxpayers. The idea of needle exchange harm reduction sacrifices these principles to the expediency of reducing harm to the individuals involved. Such infractions on principle fore expediency's sake are inappropriate.
con_2_2	Needle exchanges involve state in drug paraphernalia distribution	 Needle exchanges involve state in drug paraphernalia distribution Atlantic City judges ruled in 2005 against Needle Exchanges on the basis that: "Atlantic City and its employees are not exempt from the (criminal) code provisions prohibiting the possession, use and distribution of drugs and drug paraphernalia simply because they adopted a needle-exchange program for beneficent reasons."[2]
con_2_3	Needle exchanges send wrong message, approving drug-use	 Needle exchanges send wrong message, approving drug-use Toni Meyer. "Making the case for opposing needle exchange". New Jersey Family Policy Council. November 16, 2007: "Due to their potential to take more risks, young people must receive a clear 'NO' on Drugs: Harm reduction campaigns like NEPs send the wrong message to the community and to young people. Rather than supporting the 'zero tolerance' message that they are most likely receiving from home and currently in school, NEPs send the message 'if you do decide to take drugs, we’ll help you with clean needles'."
con_2_4	Addicts choose to take drugs; must live with disease risks.	Addicts choose to take drugs; must live with disease risks. While it is true that individuals that do drugs and share unclean needles face a greater risk of HIV/AIDS. 
headline_3	Drug-use: Do needle exchanges decrease or increase drug-use?
pro_3_1	Needle exchanges do not increase drug use	 Needle exchanges do not increase drug use Karthik Reddy. "The Case for Needle Exchange". October 25, 2007: "The opposition to needle exchange programs would have us believe that such programs encourage drug use. Studies of the Amsterdam program, however, demonstrate that drug use does not increase; the programs generally only attract those who have already become intravenous drug users.  The implementation of the San Francisco program actually resulted in decreased drug use, as the program established much-needed links with the drug-using community."
con_3_1	Needle exchanges only enable and encourage drug addicts	 Needle exchanges only enable and encourage drug addicts Aaron Lawrence. "Why a Needle-Exchange Program is a Bad Idea". Record. August 26, 2005: "Giving clean needles to addicts is no way to solve the drug problems that plague our society. So the court decision last week to block such a program is OK with me. Needle programs only help drug addicts stay high." 
con_3_2	Drug dealers sell drugs near needle exchanges	 Drug dealers sell drugs near needle exchanges Toni Meyer. "Making the case for opposing needle exchange". New Jersey Family Policy Council. November 16, 2007: "Drug Dealers Blatantly Sell Near NEPs: Commonly, drug dealers operate unimpeded by police when they are in the area of an NEP. For example, in Vancouver Canada’s Downtown Eastside area "The dealers hang around with impunity on the corner of Hastings and Main and the police don't touch them."
con_3_3	A needle exchange has a positive effect now, but not later.	A needle exchange has a positive effect now, but not later. Some studies have shown that needle exchanges no effect on drug use, or a small deterring effect. These studies however tend to focus on the short term, what isn't looked at is the mass effect, on a large population scale, as well as over a very long period time. Any sort of needle exchange is a step towards condoning drug use, or at least accepting it. To eradicate drugs you never want to have any sort of acceptance of the substance. Also some studies talk about how needle exchanges give drug users, networks and a chance to get better. It would probably be a lot easier and more beneficial to simply set up networks specifically for helping people who have drug addictions.
headline_4	Community: Do needle exchanges improve or damage communities, business, etc.?
pro_4_1	Needle exchanges protect public from disposed needles	 Needle exchanges protect public from disposed needles Alan Franciscus. "Needle Exchange - A Matter of Public Health". Hepatitis. April/June 2003: "Most needle exchange programs operate on a one-for-one basis, so they also reduce the presence of infected needles in playgrounds, streets, and trash receptacles, thus protecting children, sanitation workers, and others from accidental needle sticks."[3]
pro_4_2	Needle exchanges help protect families of drug-abusers	 Needle exchanges help protect families of drug-abusers Alan Franciscus. "Needle Exchange - A Matter of Public Health". Hepatitis. April/June 2003: Dawn Day, a Catholic priest and member of the New Jersey Governor's Advisory Council on AIDS: "I believe we have an obligation to permit people who inject drugs to have access to sterile needles so they can protect their health. Injection drug users are also God's children. And, like the reckless driver in the example above, people who inject drugs have wives, husbands, and babies. When we abandon the person who injects drugs to HIV/AIDS, we are abandoning their non-drug injecting partners and babies as well. God has given us knowledge with which to slow the spread of HIV/AIDS to all these people. Let us use it."[4]
pro_4_3	Needle exchanges benefit their areas of implementation.	Needle exchanges benefit their areas of implementation. William Martin. "Other Countries Have Demonstrated Benefits of Needle Exchange Programs." OpposingViews.com. "While opposed by some on the grounds that it seemed to be condoning drug use, needle exchange programs (NEPs) quickly proved to be an effective means of reducing the incidence of blood-borne diseases in both countries and have been widely recognized as a valid part of a good public health policy and practice in many other parts of the world. In such programs, addicts receive a clean needle for every used one they turn in, thus limiting careless or dangerous disposal of needles. In some locales, syringes can also be easily obtained from pharmacies or even from vending machines. These are not only more convenient, but encourage the use of clean needles by IDUs who may be reluctant to signal their addiction by going to an NEP."
con_4_1	Needle exchanges often have open drug injections outside	 Needle exchanges often have open drug injections outside Toni Meyer. "Making the case for opposing needle exchange". New Jersey Family Policy Council. November 16, 2007: "Increased, Open, Injection drug Use in Areas surrounding NEP’s due to influx of users. In Downtown Eastside (Vancouver BC), police estimate there are 7,500 to 8,000 addicts, and users shoot up on the streets because the injection site has waits of up to 45 minutes5. More police had to be assigned to the area to try and minimize the number of users who were shooting up outside the NEP area."
con_4_2	Needle exchanges harm local businesses	 Needle exchanges harm local businesses Toni Meyer. "Making the case for opposing needle exchange". New Jersey Family Policy Council. November 16, 2007: "Neighborhood Businesses Affected: Dale Deslauriers, the owner of Save on Meats on West Hastings (Downtown Eastside, Vancouver BC), said business is down "at least 20 percent" because customers are afraid of drug users and dealers."
con_4_3	Needle exchanges create undesirable communities.	Needle exchanges create undesirable communities. The mere idea of having a needle exchange in one's community is off-putting. This is for a variety the many reasons described here, all of which discourage new residence, particularly those with families.
con_4_4	Needle exchanged increase discarded needles on streets	 Needle exchanged increase discarded needles on streets Toni Meyer. "Making the case for opposing needle exchange". New Jersey Family Policy Council. November 16, 2007: "Discarded Needles: Reports of discarded needles in public places outside of NEP sites abound from cities with NEP’s. Here is just one example. In Cairns Australia, City Place has been revealed as Cairn’s biggest drug shooting gallery with 1000 syringes discarded since January in toilets and streets surrounding the inner city mall. Addicts are also dumping hundreds of used syringes at many of the city's other popular public places, including the Esplanade near Muddy's playground, the city library, in gardens and in various other public places. The figures were released by Cairns City Council after a recent audit of its sharps disposal bin program7."
con_4_5	Needle exchanges generally degrade community cleanliness.	Needle exchanges generally degrade community cleanliness. Needle exchanges bring in drug-addicts, who are generally less clean than other individuals. Aside from discarding needles in the street and in parks, they are generally much more prone to leaving trash around, deficating outside, and spreading illnesses and even diseases in a community.
con_4_6	Needle exchanges generally degrade community safety.	Needle exchanges generally degrade community safety. Drug-addicts are unstable and prone to crime. By bringing more drug-addicts into a community area, needle exchanges can jeopardize the safety of a community.
headline_5	Treatment: Do needle exchanges help drug-addict treatment?
pro_5_1	Needle exchanges help bring addicts into treatment programs	 Needle exchanges help bring addicts into treatment programs Needle exchanges are valuable in bringing addicts into a formal, institutional system, through which they can be connected to various treatment and job-search mechanisms.
pro_5_2	Social services for addicts can be centered around needle exchanges	 Social services for addicts can be centered around needle exchanges "Needle exchange options; pros and cons". Canada.com. March 21, 2008: "Pros: The St. John Ambulance building on Pandora Avenue is only about two blocks away from the current Cormorant Street needle exchange, meaning drug addicts are already in the area. The St. John building is, however, considerably larger and beside the new Our Place, which offers transitional housing, outreach programs, social services,  and amenities like washrooms for people living on the street. The new building will also house health professionals to diagnose, test and treat this sickly population. The building will house about 50 health care and social service providers including Assertive Community Treatment outreach teams, doctors, nurses, addiction counsellors, social workers and street nurses. Police would also have a presence inside and outside the building to maintain public order. More flexible hours of operation, and the possible use of a courtyard, mean drug users won't congregate all at once outside the building." 
pro_5_3	Needle exchanges can help create treatment awareness	 Needle exchanges can help create treatment awareness "Are Needle Exchange Programs a Good Idea?" by Jenny Murphy, Bryan Knowles;Thursday, June 15, 2000: "Needle exchange programs not only stem the transmission of disease by providing addicts with otherwise difficult-to-obtain sterile needles, but these programs provide support and information that can lead addicts into treatment. An addict might visit a needle exchange just to get clean needles to use to inject drugs, but they might also pick up free condoms or talk to a drug counselor about treatment options." 
con_5_1	Referrals to treatment are low at needle exchanges	 Referrals to treatment are low at needle exchanges "Report: Needle Exchange Program Finds Mixed Success in Atlantic City". Join Together. January 22, 2009: "Atlantic City, N.J.'s needle-exchange program -- the state's first -- has succeeded in its primary mission of collecting dirty needles from drug addicts in exchange for clean ones but has had less success getting addicted individuals into drug treatment, a new report concludes. [...] the Atlantic City program ranked last among the state's four needle exchanges in terms of referrals to drug treatment, with only 74 referrals made. Program coordinator Therese Wilkerson said that staff must walk a fine line between wanted to get clients into treatment and scaring them off by pushing too hard." 
con_5_2	Many needle exchanges do not try to change drug-addict behavior	 Many needle exchanges do not try to change drug-addict behavior David Noffs, Founder and Executive Director of the Life Education Center. "Should needle exchange be publicly funded?". PBS: "Many needle exchange programs do not make any serious effort to treat drug addiction. I have visited sites around Chicago where people who request info on quitting their habit are given a single sheet on how to go cold turkey -- hardly effective treatment or counseling."
con_5_3	Increasing treatment is better solution than needle exchanges	 Increasing treatment is better solution than needle exchanges Aaron Lawrence. "Why a Needle-Exchange Program is a Bad Idea". Record. August 26, 2005: "There are better ways of attacking the drug problem than legally sanctioning a clean-needle-giveaway - such as creating more opportunities for counseling, funding rehab clinics, and providing more health care coverage for uninsured drug users."
headline_6	Economics: Are needle exchanges cost-effective?
pro_6_1	Needle exchanges are cost-effective HIV prevention	 Needle exchanges are cost-effective HIV prevention "Does HIV Needle Exchange Work?". Center for AIDS prevention studies. November 1998: "Is needle exchange cost-effective? Yes. The median annual budget for running a program was $169,000 in 1992. Mathematical models based on those data predict that needle exchanges could prevent HIV infections among clients, their sex partners, and offspring at a cost of about $9,400 per infection averted. 16 This is far below the $195,188 lifetime cost of treating an HIV-infected person at present. 17 A national program of NEPs would have saved up to 10,000 lives by 1995."
pro_6_2	Needle exchanges decrease infections and therefore costs	 Needle exchanges decrease infections and therefore costs "Are Needle Exchange Programs a Good Idea?" by Jenny Murphy, Bryan Knowles;Thursday, June 15, 2000": "An article in the medical journal Lancet estimated that 4,400 to 10,000 HIV infections among U.S. intravenous drug users could have been avoided between 1987 and 1995 if the federal government had implemented syringe exchange nationally, saving over $500 million in health care costs. Action taken in early 1997 could have prevented an additional 11,000 infections by the year 2000, saving over $600 million." 
headline_7	Crime: Do needle exchange program decrease/increase crime?
con_7_1	Needle exchanges increase crime	 Needle exchanges increase crime Toni Meyer. "Making the case for opposing needle exchange". New Jersey Family Policy Council. November 16, 2007: "Crime Increases in Area of Needle Exchanges: - Crimes Due to Drug Use: When a needle exchange program (NEP) moves in, associated crime and violence follows, including prostitution which contributes to the spread of AIDS. A spokesperson from the Coalition for a Better Community, a NY City based group opposed to NEPs, visited the Lower East Side Needle Exchange with a NY Times reporter. Their conclusion: “Since the NEP began we’ve seen an increase in dirty syringes on our streets, in schools yards, and in our parks…Brazen addicts shoplift, loot, and steal to buy drugs." 
headline_8	Public opinion: Where do publics stand?
pro_8_1	Needle exchanges are favored by many publics	 Needle exchanges are favored by many publics "Survey finds most voters favor needle exchanges." AIDS Policy Law. May 30, 1997: "AIDS: A poll conducted in April 1997 by the Human Rights Campaign indicates that a majority of Americans favor needle-exchange programs to curb the spread of HIV. Thirty-two percent of those interviewed strongly favor needle exchanges and 23 percent somewhat favor the strategy. Support for such programs was found in every region of the United States. Republicans were split but strong majorities of independents and Democrats were in favor of needle-exchange programs."
con_8_1	Needle exchanges should not be forced on communities	 Needle exchanges should not be forced on communities David Noffs, Founder and Executive Director of the Life Education Center. "Should needle exchange be publicly funded?". PBS: "Lastly, many needle exchange programs have been introduced without the support of those communities where they set up shop. [...] Needle exchange program operators have arrogantly set up these illegal operations while self-righteously declaring that anyone who opposed them was either not compassionate to the plight of AIDS sufferers or homophobic. This condescending attitude has not helped their public relation efforts and has probably already determined their ultimate fate."
