title	Election of judges
question	Should judges be elected?
headline_1	Accountability: Will elections make judges more or less accountable?
pro_1_1	Elections make judges more democratically accountable	 Elections make judges more democratically accountable David Dewold. "Electing judges keeps them accountable." Seattle PI. November 3, 2006: "Judicial races are not just beauty contests. The reason our state constitution provides for the election of judges is not because the voters are more skilled than the governor at evaluating resumes, but because judges should be accountable to the people through the electoral process for their fidelity to the rule of law."
pro_1_2	Elected judges are more in tune with public opinion	 Elected judges are more in tune with public opinion The system of training through law schools and vocational work is elitist and prolonged, and leaves judges’ opinions at risk of being, or appearing, out of date or out of touch. Law schools have a reputation for being more liberal than the majority. Judges are often seen as lacking knowledge of recent social trends. Elections can help reverse these trends by forcing judges to understand and respect public opinion so they can advance a form of law that is seen as "just" to all citizens, not just to their own conscience. 
pro_1_3	Judicial elections are far more transparent than appointments.	Judicial elections are far more transparent than appointments. This is true in many ways. First, the actual competitive election and campaigning process reveals the nature of judicial candidates, as compared to the judicial appointment process where there is no effort required to make citizens aware of an judges qualifications. And, due to the higher profile of elections, the judiciary takes on a much more prominent public profile, receiving greater scrutiny from the public and journalists, all which increase transparency and accountability. 
con_1_1	Elected judges wrongly interpret public opinion over the law	 Elected judges wrongly interpret public opinion over the law Legal decisions require a strict interpretation of law. It should not be driven by popular opinion. Yet, this is precisely what judicial elections call for. This diverges from basic judicial principles of applying the law objectively and neutrally.
con_1_2	Election of judges bows to tyranny of the majority.	Election of judges bows to tyranny of the majority. Without elections, the judiciary is a branch of government that is isolated away from elections, and a check is placed on the potential for a tyranny of the majority, which can occur when a majority of the population retains dominance in elections.
con_1_3	Judges can be made accountable without elections.	Judges can be made accountable without elections. Judges are held to account by their ability to publish dissents, and by those who have the time and special knowledge needed to assess their capability. In some countries, such as the UK, judges can theoretically be dismissed by a vote of the legislature.
con_1_4	Many officials are appointed; why not judges as well?	Many officials are appointed; why not judges as well? Public life is already run by career civil servants and unelected officials. There is no reason why the judiciary should be any different. 
con_1_5	Judges are appointed/confirmed by elected officials, democratically.	Judges are appointed/confirmed by elected officials, democratically. Judges are appointed and confirmed by elected officials, which means that they are democratically appointed, albeit indirectly, via the people's elected represantives. This is common and appropriate in a republic, that some individuals are not directly elected, but whom are democratically accountable one-step-removed. Appointed judges, therefore, are not removed from the election process and the people's judgement; they are at arms length to the democratic, electoral process.
con_1_6	General statements against the election of judges	 General statements against the election of judges
headline_2	Voters: Can voters and elections do a good job at electing judges?
pro_2_1	Voters will ensure elected judges uphold the rule of law	 Voters will ensure elected judges uphold the rule of law Voters have at heart upholding the rule of law, particularly because they are interested in maintaining their individual rights. Elections will not take judges away from the rule of law. Instead, it will prevent judges from applying radical individual preferences, and help keep judges in-line with the rule of law.
pro_2_2	Judicial elections elevate debate and awareness of judiciary	 Judicial elections elevate debate and awareness of judiciary "In defense of elections". The Record. August 14, 2005: "we don’t mean [judicial elections are] “better” because of who prevailed-this newspaper supported Karmeier-- but rather because of how much was debated. The election raised important issues never before argued publicly in the 5th Judicial District. Thanks to record spending we saw record campaigning and candidate communications-activating a once judiciary-ambivalent electorate."
con_2_1	Voters don't have enough info to pick the best judges	 Voters don't have enough info to pick the best judges Voters are overwhelmed with so much information, and so many candidates, they usually know little to nothing about candidates for judges. This means that the resulting choice has little to do with the merit of the candidate. Instead, it is simply a crapshoot shot in the dark from voters that just don't know enough to make a good choice. 
con_2_2	Judges cannot voice their opinions, so how can voters decide?	 Judges cannot voice their opinions, so how can voters decide? This is similar to the above argument, but it emphasizes that the problem of a lack of information for voters cannot be solved, as judges are supposed to remain silent on their politics, so that they can neutrally and objectively judge individual cases on their own merits.
con_2_3	Election of judges delegitimizes their role	 Election of judges delegitimizes their role Jason Kleinman. "So should we elect our judges or is there a better way?" Why it's our City. June 15th, 2009: "Here’s what electing judges does. It forces them to beg campaign cash from the very people who would appear before them in court. It forces voters to choose from clogged slates of unknown names. Not surprisingly, those voters fall back on dumb factors such as ballot position, ethnic surnames and who bought the most TV ads. Judicial elections have become costly showdowns between corporate and union lobbies, with clueless voters in the crossfire."
headline_3	Corruption: Do elections or appointments better avoid corruption?
pro_3_1	Elected judge conflicts of interests can be sufficiently regulated	 Elected judge conflicts of interests can be sufficiently regulated The US Supreme Court ruled in a June 2009 West Virginia case that judges must recuse themselves from cases involving high-dollar donors who helped them win their seats. This is a sufficient measure to reduce the chances of corruption, while maintaining judicial elections.[1]
pro_3_2	Correlation b/w interests of donors and judges doesn't prove corruption.	Correlation b/w interests of donors and judges doesn't prove corruption. Some have tried to demonstrate a correlation between the interests of donors to the election campaigns of judges and the ultimate decisions of those judges. The idea behind these studies is that such a correlation demonstrates a tendency for judges to be biased or corrupted in favor of the views of their funders. Yet, such a conclusion is hard to prove. Donors are only likely to give money to judges that demonstrate a likelihood, irrespective of the money, to make decisions according to a certain philosophy that correlates to their own interests. The direction of the causality is important to recognize. Donors are giving money to those that are likely to uphold their interests; judges are not necessarily bending their judicial philosophies and decisions to cador to the interests of donors.
pro_3_3	Appointment of judges is more prone to corruption than elections.	Appointment of judges is more prone to corruption than elections. The appointment of judges can be done corruptly, in which a judge is appointed based solely on a close relationship, or because their is some promise of financial reward for making the appointment. And, after the election, there is a risk that a judge will pass biased judgement in favor of the one that appointed them, as a way of compensating them for the appointment. This is of at least equal concern compared to the possibility of corruption surrounding elections, and judgments later passed in favor of campaign donors. What may make elections less potentially corrupting is the fact that the process of selecting the judge (an election) is much less likely to be biased or corrupt, as compared to an appointment by one individual.     
con_3_1	Elections damage trust in impartiality of judges	 Elections damage trust in impartiality of judges Robert Heim. "Getting campaigns out of the courtroom" The Philadelphia Inquirer. June 18, 2009: "Some years ago, I was told of a lawyer who was sitting with a client in court, waiting for a newly assigned judge to hear his case. When the judge appeared, the lawyer whispered to his client that he was concerned, because the opposing lawyer was on the judge's campaign committee and had contributed to the campaign. After a pause, the client whispered back, 'So why didn't you contribute?'"
con_3_2	Elected justices are corruptly influenced by campaign funders	 Elected justices are corruptly influenced by campaign funders Susan Finch. "Money Talks, Says Study of Justices". The Times-Picayune. February 1, 2008: "a Tulane Law School professor has concluded after he and another scholar studied voting patterns on the state's high court over 14 years. In 181 civil cases between 1992 and 2006, the nine justices have been significantly influenced by campaign donations in making their decisions, says the study, which is soon to be published in the Tulane Law Review."
con_3_3	Donors influence judges' decisions; not issue of common philosophy	 Donors influence judges' decisions; not issue of common philosophy Some argue that donors are simply giving money to judges of similar judicial philosophies. Yet, some statistics demonstrate a clear tendency of judges to actively shift their positions in favor of their campaign donors. These statistics show the causality is of judges actively bending their positions in favor of their donors' positions, not simply of donors giving money to judges of a similar judicial philosophy. 
con_3_4	Lawyers may fund judge campaigns to influence trials	 Lawyers may fund judge campaigns to influence trials "Elect to appoint judges instead". York Daily Record. June 12, 2009: "These statewide races are expensive -- they can cost millions. Where do you think all that money comes from? In many cases, lawyers. [...] Lawyers who often wind up trying cases before the very judges they helped elect."
con_3_5	Elected judges increase the influence of special interests	 Elected judges increase the influence of special interests The election of judges opens the door to special interests supporting campaigns and subsequently "buying" influence over judges.  
con_3_6	Elected judges bring hassle of regulating conflicts of interests	 Elected judges bring hassle of regulating conflicts of interests "Elect to appoint judges instead". York Daily Record. June 12, 2009: "The high court ruled in a West Virginia case that judges must recuse themselves from cases involving high-dollar donors who helped them win their seats. [...] If Pennsylvania used a merit selection process -- as proposed in recently introduced legislation -- we wouldn't have to worry about running afoul of that ruling and judges wouldn't have to try to figure out whether a $50 donation requires recrusal."
con_3_7	Impossible to avoid big-money influence in judicial elections	 Impossible to avoid big-money influence in judicial elections "A question of integrity". News & Record of Greensboro. June 19, 2009: "Although most statewide judicial candidates participate in a public campaign financing system, that’s not a safeguard against big-money influence. Blankenship contributed only $1,000 directly to Benjamin’s campaign. He gave $3 million for so-called independent expenditures on Benjamin’s behalf. The same thing could happen in North Carolina."
headline_4	Checks and balances: Do elected judiciaries better uphold checks and balances?
pro_4_1	Unelected judiciaries are prone to recklessly expanding their powers.	Unelected judiciaries are prone to recklessly expanding their powers. Thomas Jefferson: "the germ of dissolution of our federal government is in the Constitution of the federal judiciary; an irresponsible body (for impeachment is scarcely a scarecrow), working like gravity by night and by day, gaining a little today and a little tomorrow, and advancing its noiseless step like a thief over the field of jurisdiction, until all shall be usurped from the states, and the government of all be consolidated into one."[2]
con_4_1	Appointed judiciaries are more independent to check other branches	 Appointed judiciaries are more independent to check other branches In Federalist 78, Alexander Hamilton argued for the independence of judges. He believed they should be appointed to serve "during good behavior" and insulated from the political process, as this helps them check the legislative and executive branches. The main reason for this is that it is more difficult for a judge that is affiliated with a political party and in need of campaign funds from that party, to pass rulings against their Party leaders in the Congress, Parliament, or executive branch.[3]
headline_5	Quality: Do elections improve the quality of judges?
pro_5_1	It is up to the people to decide which judges merit election.	It is up to the people to decide which judges "merit" election. It is presumptuous to conclude that the electorate is ill-qualified to determine the qualifications and merit of prospective judges and make appropriate selections based on their collective judgement of merit. Should we conclude that a single governor is more qualified to make such a judgement of merit? This is a highly presumptuous proposition. 
pro_5_2	Screening can help ensure judicial candidates have sufficient merit.	Screening can help ensure judicial candidates have sufficient merit. Some have proposed a kind of hybrid system in which judicial elections exist, but in which a pre-screening process ensures that all candidates appropriately qualified to become a judge. This maintains the ability of voters to choose based on their best judgement, but also ensures against instances in which wholly unqualified judges are elected to the bench. This, along with other possible systems, demonstrate that it is unnecessary to entirely rid the system of elections. Elections can be maintained, while various mechanisms can be worked into place that check against any of the difficulties they may produce.
con_5_1	Elections and campaigning distracts judges from responsibilities	 Elections and campaigning distracts judges from responsibilities "Should we elect judges?". Belief Net. June 9, 2009: "there's the issue that election campaigning isn't always the best use of a judge's time. We expect our judges to handle a lot of cases in a given year, and the need, in a hotly-contested race, to make speeches, travel to meet with constituent groups, give access to the media for interviews etc. means a portion, possibly a large one, of the judge's time and attention during an election year are going to be demanded by the campaign itself."
con_5_2	Political style will replace merit with election of judges	 Political style will replace merit with election of judges In judicial elections, money, looks, celebrity, or unabashed populism will triumph over reasoned and balanced moderation. This is typical in politics, and it will also be the case in judicial politics and elections.
con_5_3	Elections frequently unseat experienced, and seat inexperienced, judges.	Elections frequently unseat experienced, and seat inexperienced, judges. In general, elections tend to create a higher rate of turnover in the judiciary. This means that experienced judges are more quickly booted out of office and replaced by less experienced judges. This does not benefit democracy.
con_5_4	Judicial elections are known to produce inferior judiciaries	 Judicial elections are known to produce inferior judiciaries Walter Olson. "Judicial elections: a dissenting view". Point of Law. July 17, 2008: "Federal judges, who of course are exclusively selected by appointment rather than election, are widely seen as upholding a general standard of quality well above that of their state brethren. Business defendants in particular overwhelmingly seek to have their cases heard in federal court rather than state. Again, business litigants widely regard the judicial process of most other advanced democracies -- in Western Europe, Japan, Canada -- as more predictable and rational than that of state courts in the U.S. And again, in those other advanced democracies, elected judgeships are virtually unknown, being widely seen as part and parcel of the distinctive 'American disease' of law."
headline_6	Meritocracy: Does the election of judges fit with the idea of a meritocracy?
pro_6_1	Judicial elections are more competitive, open, and fair	 Judicial elections are more competitive, open, and fair "In defense of elections". The Record. August 14th, 2005: "2004’s state supreme court race was the most intense and competitive judicial election Southern Illinois has ever seen. And that’s a good thing-for we the people, anyway. [...] Competitive debate isn’t the most comfortable exercise for everyone-- namely that ruling class accustomed to dominating the courthouse. This explains why the plaintiff’s bar is so dead set on ensuring an election like Karmeier vs. Maag never happens again. [...] Groups like the Washington, D.C.-based Justice at Stake Campaign (JASC)-the trial lawyer-backed group that released that new report-would have one think rigorous campaigns are a bad thing. [...] Only in the eyes of the losers and dictators are free elections, free speech and open discussion a public threat. [...] Just as our system didn’t create judicial elections to be ignored, it didn’t intend for our judiciary to exist in the shadows, nameless and unknown, immune from criticism. [...] In the case of Southern Illinois’ now notorious race, the underdog won, carrying the day with his reasoned arguments to the public in what would have typically been enemy territory. [...] Today Justice Lloyd Karmeier is undoubtedly more recognized by his electorate than any other judge in Illinois. That’s a goal and example to which our state should aspire, not reject."
pro_6_2	Legal hierarchy surrounding appointments is not a meritocracy.	Legal hierarchy surrounding appointments is not a meritocracy. The complex, lengthy, and costly process which constitutes current legal training does not make for a fully meritocratic system. elections would allow younger lawyers and other professionals to stand for election – and the public is fully capable of recognising the best candidates.
con_6_1	Merit, not money, should sway judicial elections	 Merit, not money, should sway judicial elections "Electing judges-with cash". Cody Corliss. January 30,2008: "Now that a judge can be more open about his or her beliefs, money is flowing into judicial campaigns as never before. The 2006 judicial campaign season was the highest spending on record, according to Justice at Stake, a nonpartisan monitoring group. That year, business interests gave $15.3 million to judicial candidates while attorneys kicked in another $7.4 million. Third-party interest advertising accounted for another $8.5 million. One can only imagine that 2008 will be another record year.So what can we do to end the money exchange in state judicial elections? Simply put, it's time to end judicial elections on the state's highest courts." The main problem with the requirement that candidates spend large sums of money to compete in judicial election campaigns is that it limits the prospective pool of candidates to the rich, powerful, and well-connected. These things have nothing to do with judicial merit.
con_6_2	Political style will replace merit with election of judges	 Political style will replace merit with election of judges Money, looks, celebrity, or unabashed populism will triumph over reasoned and balanced moderation in judicial elections. This is common in politics, and judicial campaigns and elections have proven no different. Clearly, elections will increase these considerations over considerations of merit.
con_6_3	Lawyers are not free to campaign against judges	 Lawyers are not free to campaign against judges "Editorial: Time To Appoint Judges". Shreveport Times. September 21st, 2008: "Lawyers are reluctant to run against a sitting judge for obvious reasons, particularly if the would-be candidate is a courtroom attorney. [...] Of this flawed judge-'til-retirement system, one retired Missouri circuit judge, J. Miles Sweeney, said of never having to face an opponent in four elections in Greene County: 'Nobody ever had a chance to vote against me. I was never accountable.'"
con_6_4	Democracies have no obligation to merit.	Democracies have no obligation to merit. Democracies, even representative, have nothing to uphold other than letting the voters have a voice. By it's very nature a democracy would do nothing to preserve a precedence on any sort of merit or qualifications. What's even worse is the fact that voters care very little about merit, and any elections show it. There is no real correlation of experience to votes won, if one looks back at an history of elections. To allow for a meritocracy to occur with choosing judges, people who actually appreciate merit must be the deciders. Those people are no the average voters, because as Winston Churchill once said, "The best argument agaisnt democracy, is a five-minute consversation with the average voter."
headline_7	Politics: Can judges function well or better in the political process?
pro_7_1	Election of judges does not inherently require partisanship.	Election of judges does not inherently require partisanship. The election of judges is not inherently related to any affiliation with political parties. Judges are capable of influencing political life without being party political.
pro_7_2	Appointed judges are identified with the party of the appointer.	Appointed judges are identified with the party of the appointer. While some complain elections would make the judiciary partisan in nature, this seems to forget that the appointment of judges is partisan with the appointee typically carrying the banner of the appointers party. In other words, with elections or appointments, there is no getting away from some partisanship.
pro_7_3	Judicial elections need not be designed as partisan.	Judicial elections need not be designed as partisan. It is not necessary to design judicial elections so that candidates must affiliate with political parties. Judicial elections are frequently being designed as non-partisan, in which the primary and general elections do not require that judges appear on the ballot as Democrats or Republicans, or affiliated with any other party in elections outside of the United States. Therefore, judicial elections need not be considered partisan. They can be wholly separated from partisan politics.
con_7_1	Elections pressure judges to craft positions to win votes	 Elections pressure judges to craft positions to win votes Walter Olson. "Judicial elections: a dissenting view". Point of Law. July 17, 2008: "The evils of asking impartial judges to beat the bushes for votes and contributions are so obvious and so (nearly) universally conceded that I won't dwell on them at any length here. (You can find plenty of examples on the website of the Justice at Stake campaign and its blog, Gavel Grab.) Judges seeking election or re-election face constant pressure to "commit" to stances favored by one or another voting bloc." 
con_7_2	Elected judges are effectively forced to join political parties	 Elected judges are effectively forced to join political parties Dirk Olin. "Judicial Selection: Does Any Method Work?". Judiciary Reports. April 9th, 2008: "Electing judges puts enormous control into the hands of a few party leaders, who (by definition) are unmitigated whores. The political process of becoming a party nominee reflects the worst of all worlds, internal favoritism by paying off political debts or favors with a judicial nomination without regard to merit, or even basic competence.  Licking envelopes for a party boss is not a primary qualification for being a judge.  It is, however, for being a judicial nominee." Elected judges are also pressured to join political parties as a means of appealing to voters.   
headline_8	Authority: Do unelected judges lack the sufficient authority and legitimacy?
pro_8_1	Unelected judges lack authority need by co-equal branch of govt.	Unelected judges lack authority need by co-equal branch of govt. Elections offer a certain amount of legitimacy. They confer the power of the people to a government's rule by and for the people. Lacking such electoral legitimacy, the judicial branch lacks authority. This is a problem in a government that demands checks and balances from co-equal branches. Indeed, in the United States, the judicial branch is considered the weakest of the three branches of government. But, should this be the case in a government established on the precepts of co-equal branches? An elected judiciary would be a more powerful judiciary, and thus provide for stronger checks and balances and stronger governance. 
con_8_1	Judiciary is weaker; should not be stronger by elections	 Judiciary is weaker; should not be stronger by elections The judiciary is almost always considered an inherently weaker branch of government due to its inherent lack of "force" and "will". This is appropriate and is outlined in the American Federalist Paper #78 (1803): "The judiciary...may truly be said to have neither FORCE nor WILL, but merely judgment; and must ultimately depend upon the aid of the executive arm even for the efficacy of its judgments. This simple view of the matter suggests several important consequences. It proves incontestably, that the judiciary is beyond comparison the weakest of the three departments of power; that it can never attack with success either of the other two...that...the general liberty of the people can never be endangered from that quarter; I mean, so long as the judiciary remains truly distinct from both the legislative and the Executive." 
con_8_2	Rulings of elected judges are weakened by concerns of bias	 Rulings of elected judges are weakened by concerns of bias "How did we come to elect judges?". Frontline. 1999: "I think [judicial election] also creates a new way to nullify a judge's decision; if a losing party to a case can show that a judge received a significant contribution from anyone even associated with the winning party the losing party can point to this decision to demand a new trial."
headline_9	Public trust: Which system better upholds public trust in the judiciary?
pro_9_1	Electing judges has the appearance of public legitimacy.	Electing judges has the appearance of public legitimacy. While it may be true that elections can create the appearance of conflicts of interests and corruption, is it not also true that appointments can create the appearance of corruption between the appointer and appointee, and because appointed judges are less accountable and transparent to the electorate? Elections have the appearance of public approval and legitimacy through the process of the election and the accountability that follows. Elections, therefore, probably carry the greater appearance of legitimacy in the public-eye. Therefore, judicial elections are probably better for upholding confidence in the judicial system. 
con_9_1	Election of judges has appearance of judges selling influence.	Election of judges has appearance of judges selling influence. Even if judges are not acting corruptly per se, the need to raise large sums of money for effective campaigns does create the impression that judges are selling their influence. 
con_9_2	The public has less respect for politician judges.	The public has less respect for politician judges. Roscoe Pound told the American Bar Association (ABA) in 1906 when he was a Nebraska law professor, "Putting courts into politics and compelling judges to become politicians, in many jurisdictions has almost destroyed the traditional respect for the Bench."[4]
con_9_3	Very few countries have judicial elections; reducing its legitimacy.	Very few countries have judicial elections; reducing its legitimacy. Japan, Switzerland, and the United States are the only countries that hold judicial elections. Indeed, outside of these countries, judicial elections are widely perceived to produce inferior judiciaries. This generally undermines the perceived legitimacy of the judicial system.
