title	Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty
question	Is the CTBT, or any other nuclear test ban treaty, a good idea?
headline_1	Nonproliferation: Would the NTBT help with non-proliferation efforts?
pro_1_1	Test ban halts R&D and development of nuclear weapons	 Test ban halts R&D and development of nuclear weapons "A Case against Virtual Nuclear Testing." Scientific American Magazine. September 1999: "By barring explosive tests, the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty severely constrains the way nations have traditionally evaluated changes in bomb designs and confirmed the performance of weapons to be stockpiled for military use. A ban on test explosions cannot alone prevent the spread of nuclear weapons, but it does pose a significant barrier to the development of weapons that rely on fusion reactions, including lighter, more compact and more powerful missile-borne nuclear warhead designs, such as those China has allegedly acquired from the U.S. through espionage and intelligence-gathering."
pro_1_2	Test ban is a key step toward nuclear disarmmaent	 Test ban is a key step toward nuclear disarmmaent Daryl G. Kimball of the Arms Control Association, said in a speech delivered September 22, 2005:[1] "The de facto global nuclear test moratorium and CTBT’s entry into force are crucial barriers to help prevent the spread of nuclear weapons to additional states and are essential to the future viability of the nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty (NPT). They are the first two of the 13 practical steps for systematic and progressive nuclear disarmament that were unanimously adopted in the Final Document of the 2000 NPT Review Conference. In fact, the nuclear weapon states' commitment to the CTBT was vital in securing the indefinite extension of the NPT in 1995." 
pro_1_3	Test ban helps prevent nuclear arms race	 Test ban helps prevent nuclear arms race Daryl G. Kimball of the Arms Control Association wrote on September 22, 2005: "The CTBT is an essential step towards nuclear disarmament because it helps to discourage dangerous nuclear competition and block new nuclear threats from emerging.Given the series of crises with grave nuclear overtones that have shaken the South Asian sub-continent since the 1998 nuclear explosions, it should be self-evident that another round of tit-for-tat testing would adversely affect regional and international security."[2]
pro_1_4	Test ban helps stop nuclear states from testing new weapons	 Test ban helps stop nuclear states from testing new weapons Samuel Berger, Sam Nunn, and William Perry. "Case for ratifying Nuclear Test Ban Treaty". Politico. June 2nd, 2009: "it would limit the ability of current nuclear powers to develop new types of nuclear warheads."    
pro_1_5	Test ban would help combat growing nuclear threats	 Test ban would help combat growing nuclear threats Samuel Berger, Sam Nunn, and William Perry. "Case for ratifying Nuclear Test Ban Treaty". Politico. June 2nd, 2009: "Fast forward 10 years, and nuclear proliferation's perils have only become more apparent. Pakistan, a new nuclear state, is facing an existential threat that could put its arsenal at risk. Terrorist organizations like Al Qaeda are actively seeking weapons of mass destruction and would not hesitate to use them. North Korea and Iran are pursuing dangerous nuclear programs for themselves, underscored by the May 25 North Korean nuclear test. The world is on the precipice of a new and perilous nuclear era. Threat reduction demands urgent action."  
pro_1_6	Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty still relevant after Cold War	 Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty still relevant after Cold War "The Test Ban Treaty". New York Times Editorial. May 24, 2009: "One can shrug and say that such treaties are leftovers from the cold war. That is wrong, especially in a world where nuclear appetites are growing."
pro_1_7	General arguments in favor of a nuclear test ban	 General arguments in favor of a nuclear test ban
con_1_1	Nuclear Test Ban Treaty does not help nuclear disarmament.	Nuclear Test Ban Treaty does not help nuclear disarmament. A test ban treaty does not directly ban nuclear weapons nor their production. It only limits the testing of these new or existing stockpiles. A ban, therefore, does not make much progress toward nuclear disarmament. If this is the goal, it provides little assistance toward achieving disarmament. 
con_1_2	Test ban does not erase knowledge of how to build nukes	 Test ban does not erase knowledge of how to build nukes The CTBT is not a solution due to the fact that the information and know-how to build nuclear weapons will remain. And, even a nuclear weapons program that has not benefited from nuclear detonations is a viable one. 
con_1_3	Nuclear test ban lacks commitment to nuclear disarmament	 Nuclear test ban lacks commitment to nuclear disarmament Commenting on the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT) in September 1996, India's former Minister for External Affairs, IK Gujral, said" "It is not a ‘comprehensive treaty,’ (as) it permits the nuclear weapon states to continue their weapons related research and development activity using non-explosive technologies; it lacks any meaningful commitment to nuclear disarmament and instead of being the definitive first step of the nuclear disarmament process, it only serves to perpetuate the existing discriminatory status quo.” This was the keystone of India’s stand on the CTBT in the 1990s."[3]
con_1_4	Test ban ties hands of good states, while rogue states ignore it	 Test ban ties hands of good states, while rogue states ignore it Mikhail Gorbachev said on April 17, 2009: "There is no way to unmake nuclear weapons. Like guns, restrictions on them never seem to deter the rogues we fear but only tie the hands of the responsible citizens of the world. While we can certainly try to avoid producing unnecessary numbers of them and pointing them at each other threateningly, we will never see a world rid of them until and unless some new technology makes them obsolete. That is why a functional missile defense system has to be a priority for the US."[4]    
con_1_5	Test ban, as a means to abolishing nuclear weapons, is unrealistic	 Test ban, as a means to abolishing nuclear weapons, is unrealistic Many see a test ban treaty as a good means to abolishing nuclear weapons. Yet, the objective of abolishing nuclear weapons is not realistic, primarily due to the constant uncertainty among nations as to whether other nations, and particularly rogue nations, will abide by such a ban on nukes. Fears will likely cause countries to keep some nukes "just in case". Therefore, a test ban, in so far as it is seen as a means to abolishing nuclear weapons, is unrealistic. 
con_1_6	Fear will cause nuclear proliferation, despite testing ban.	Fear will cause nuclear proliferation, despite testing ban. The Utopian model suggested by the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty that it will prevent nuclear war and hazards by stopping nuclear testing is fallacious, primarily because fear of nuclear arsenals will continue, which may lead to wars similar to the War in Iraq, just to see whether a country has nuclear weapons or not. Such fears of countries' nuclear capabilities will continue to cause conflict, even if nations are unable to test their nuclear capabilities.  
con_1_7	General statements opposing a nuclear test ban	 General statements opposing a nuclear test ban   
headline_2	Enforcement: Can a Nuclear Test Ban Treaty be effectively enforced?
pro_2_1	New technologies enable detection and ban of nuclear tests	 New technologies enable detection and ban of nuclear tests. Paul G. Richards and Won-Young Kim. "Advances in Monitoring Nuclear Weapon Testing". Scientific American. March 2009: "Detecting a test of a nuclear weapon has become so effective and reliable that no nation could expect to get away with secretly exploding a device having military significance.Seismic monitoring can now detect a nuclear explosion with a yield of a kiloton or more anywhere on Earth. In many places, detection is far more sensitive than that.In our view, those concerns about monitoring are groundless—and have been for several years. The scientific and technical community has developed a well-honed ability to monitor militarily significant nuclear test explosions anywhere in the world, above ground or below, and to distinguish them from mine collapses, earthquakes, and other natural or nonnuclear phenomena."
pro_2_2	Improved monitoring from test ban provides important information	 Improved monitoring from test ban provides important information Samuel Berger, Sam Nunn, and William Perry. "Case for ratifying Nuclear Test Ban Treaty". Politico. June 2nd, 2009: "the Treaty also would bolster international monitoring of nuclear activities, clarifying the nature of suspicious (or benign) activities which might otherwise exacerbate regional tensions from South Asia to the Middle East."
con_2_1	Detecting nuclear tests is too difficult to enforce ban	 Detecting nuclear tests is too difficult to enforce ban Robert Irion. "Scientists convene in San Francisco to discuss Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty". University of California, Santa Cruz. January 6, 1997: "While the treaty calls for a total ban on nuclear testing, there is a threshold beneath which the seismic network will be unable to detect tiny events, Lay says. [...] 'We'd have to be able to look everywhere in the world for a magnitude 2.5 event, detect it, and discriminate between an earthquake, nuclear test, mining blast, or some other event. That's a staggering objective.'"    
con_2_2	Enforcing a test ban, not detecting tests, is the issue	 Enforcing a test ban, not detecting tests, is the issue While detection is a problem, even if we assume that detection is possible, the main issue surrounds enforcing the treaty after detecting a test. North Korea, for example, will likely simply ignore the treaty. And, what will the international community do in response? Probably nothing. 
con_2_3	Nuclear Test Ban lacks force behind it	 Nuclear Test Ban lacks force behind it Paula A. Desutter "The Test Ban Treaty Would Help North Korea". The Wall Street Journal. June 1, 2009: "As for deterrence, it's a simple concept: convince others that the cost of taking an action you wish to prevent is far greater than any benefits. At a minimum, violators should not benefit from their violation. The Obama administration's special envoy for North Korea, Stephen Bosworth, has been touring the region warning of 'dire consequences' if North Korea tests. Strong words, but likely empty of substance."
con_2_4	Enforcing a nuclear test ban is a risky proposition.	Enforcing a nuclear test ban is a risky proposition. Under a test ban treat, any sort of testing, whether civil or military in nature, will be - officially - intolerable. But, how is the world to respond to such an "intolerable" threat? Through military action, sanctions, or by other means?  It may be forced to respond militarily simply to protect its legitimacy in upholding the ban, yet with great consequences as a result. Or, more likely, aggressive action will not be taken, and the legitimacy of the United Nations will be further undermined. Either outcome would be an unfortunate result of the CTBT. 
headline_3	Deterrence: Can nuclear powers maintain deterrence under a nuclear test ban?
pro_3_1	Nuclear weapons, deterrence can be maintained w/o detonation tests	 Nuclear weapons, deterrence can be maintained w/o detonation tests Comprehensive Nuclear-Test Ban Treaty. Congressional Research Service. March 12, 2008: "Can the United States maintain deterrence without testing? The treaty’s supporters hold that U.S. programs can maintain existing, tested weapons without further testing, pointing to 12 annual assessments that these weapons remain safe and reliable, and claim that these weapons meet any deterrent needs."
pro_3_2	Nuclear deterrence is less relevant today; test ban does little damage	 Nuclear deterrence is less relevant today; test ban does little damage "Kissinger, Shultz, Perry & Nunn call for A World Free of Nuclear Weapons". The Wall Street Journal. January 4, 2007: "Nuclear weapons were essential to maintaining international security during the Cold War because they were a means of deterrence. The end of the Cold War made the doctrine of mutual Soviet-American deterrence obsolete. Deterrence continues to be a relevant consideration for many states with regard to threats from other states. But reliance on nuclear weapons for this purpose is becoming increasingly hazardous and decreasingly effective." [Therefore, in so far as the CTBT might damage the nuclear capabilities of a state, it will be irrelevant, as the need for nuclear deterrence is much smaller today.]
con_3_1	Warheads and deterrence cannot be maintained without testing	 Warheads and deterrence cannot be maintained without testing Comprehensive Nuclear-Test Ban Treaty. Congressional Research Service. March 12, 2008: "Opponents maintain that there can be no confidence in existing warheads because many minor modifications will change them from tested versions, so testing is needed to restore and maintain confidence. They see deterrence as dynamic, requiring new weapons to counter new threats, and assert that these weapons must be tested."
con_3_2	Nuclear deterrence, not test ban, is best for non-proliferation	 Nuclear deterrence, not test ban, is best for non-proliferation The most important way to limit the proliferation of nuclear weapons is through nuclear deterrence. That is, by convincing non-nuclear states that developing a nuclear weapons program is futile in the face of significant nuclear powers. Therefore, in so far as a nuclear test ban will diminish the arsenals of nuclear powers, it will will diminish the power of nuclear deterrence to limit nuclear proliferation.
con_3_3	Nuclear warheads cannot simply be shelved, they require testing.	Nuclear warheads cannot simply be shelved, they require testing. Nuclear warheads are complex devices that cannot just be "shelved" for later. Specifically, their radioactive core can affect others parts of the weapon, making testing necessary. Without testing, therefore, is required to maintain weapons and deterrence.
headline_4	Diplomacy: What are the diplomatic pros and cons?
pro_4_1	World can better leverage rogue states after ratifying CTBT	 World can better leverage rogue states after ratifying CTBT Samuel Berger, Sam Nunn, and William Perry. "Case for ratifying Nuclear Test Ban Treaty". Politico. June 2nd, 2009: "Let's be clear: we are not saying that if we set a shining example by ratifying the CTBT that Iran and North Korea will suddenly see the light and immediately abandon their nuclear programs. That is not our point. We do believe, however, that if the U.S. can move forward on CTBT it would help build and sustain the international cooperation required to apply pressure on nations like North Korea and Iran still seeking the nuclear option, enhance America's standing to argue that all nations should abide by global nonproliferation norms and rally the world to take other essential steps in preventing nuclear dangers."   
pro_4_2	Test ban treaty helps reduce wasteful government spending	Test ban treaty helps reduce wasteful government spending By the virtue of this treaty if the countries comply to it then the money spent on building new weapons and research development can be reduced and this money can be used in different areas of economic development. The Five important and heavy economic earning GDP who are actively a part in this arms race if they all reduce it the world expenditure can be cut down and the money can be used for things like recovering from the 2008/2009 economic crisis. Estimated expenditure as shown by the various index shows massive amounts spent by countries to develop nuclear arsenals so as to react to any nuclear war by any country.[5]  
pro_4_3	CTBT has gained widespread support; should receive more.	CTBT has gained widespread support; should receive more. The CTBT has been signed by more than 170 countries. It is, therefore, widely popular around the world. This goes in its favor, and countries that oppose it risk alienating themselves in the eyes of the CTBT's supporters.
con_4_1	Monitoring NCBT could further alienate countries.	Monitoring NCBT could further alienate countries. Monitoring a country (an intrinsic part of implementing a test ban), would cause certain countries to feel as though their sovereignty was being unfairly infringed upon. Thus they would feel alienated to a degree, causing unnecessary international tensions. Often the counter argument for this would be something like: "if these countries are opposed to international laws, and monitoring, then why would they agree to them in the first place?" Countries like Iran and North Korea put themselves in these positions quite regularly, and there is no reason that a nuclear test ban treaty would not be an extension of this. Therefore, to the extent that their sovereignty is infringed upon under a test ban treaty, the ban could cause an increase in tension and conflict between these states and the rest of the international system.
headline_5	Environment: Does a test ban reduce risks to the environment?
pro_5_1	Nuclear test ban eliminates negative environmental	 Nuclear test ban eliminates negative environmental Greenpeace wrote in a background article on the CTBT: "Since 1945, there have been 2,046 tests worldwide, about one nuclear test every nine days for the last fifty-one years. The U.S. has carried out 1,030 nuclear weapon tests; the former Soviet Union has done 715; France, 210; Britain, 45 and China also 45. India has exploded one nuclear device, which it claimed was for peaceful purposes. Wherever nuclear weapons testing has occurred there have been environmental problems. Large areas of land are contaminated as a result of atmospheric tests and the long-term consequences of underground nuclear testing are unknown. Fallout from the peak years of atmospheric nuclear testing in the 1950s and 1960s, contaminated food, milk and water around the globe."[6] A test ban treaty can, therefore, eliminate these environmental consequences.
pro_5_2	Test ban helps re-enforce right to nuclear energy.	Test ban helps re-enforce right to nuclear energy. NPT ensures all the signing and ratifying members have a right to nuclear development for peaceful purposes (i.e. nuclear energy). A nuclear test ban helps safeguard this right by reducing some of the suspicions surrounding the development of nuclear energy programs, as it makes it more difficult to switch a peaceful program into a weapons program. This generally helps uphold the right of countries to pursue nuclear energy without suspicion and any subsequent limitation or sanctions. In this sense, it helps re-enforce the Non-proliferation treaty as well as the right to peaceful nuclear energy, and makes the enforcement of these treaties easier. [7][8]
con_5_1	Test ban may actually increase risky waste disposal.	Test ban may actually increase risky waste disposal. If all the nuclear technology possessors comply to the CTBT then weapons that are already there have to be disposed of and the present method used of vitrification is a little bit expensive for developing countries. As, U.S.A has already been found disposing of waste material such as burying it under soil or geologic disposal which will affect land and water in a very bad way creating so many further problems such as pollution and diseases. Proper nuclear waste disposal technique have to be found which are viable and solve the problem of nuclear waste. But, in the meantime, the CTBT may actually increase risky and environmentally harmful waste disposal."[9]
headline_6	Nuclear fallout: Does a nuclear test ban treaty reduce risks of nuclear fallout?
pro_6_1	Nuclear test ban reduces risks of nuclear fallout	 Nuclear test ban reduces risks of nuclear fallout John F.Kennedy's Radio and Television Address to the American People on the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Washington, D.C. July 26, 1963: "Our own atmospheric tests last year were conducted under conditions which restricted such fallout to an absolute minimum. But over the years the number and the yield of weapons tested have rapidly increased and so have the radioactive hazards from such testing. Continued unrestricted testing by the nuclear powers, joined in time by other nations which may be less adept in limiting pollution, will increasingly contaminate the air that all of us must breathe."   
con_6_1	Certain types of testing eliminate risk of nuclear fallout.	Certain types of testing eliminate risk of nuclear fallout. Underground and atmospheric testing effectively eliminate any risk of nuclear fallout. A nuclear test ban treaty, therefore, may be excessive in achieving the goal of limiting nuclear fallout risks. It would be sufficient to place restrictions on nuclear tests, limiting them such that the risks of nuclear fallout are low or negligible. 
