title	Should Catholic priests be allowed to marry?
question	
headline_1	Church: Does celibacy hurt/help priests perform duties to the Church?
pro_1_1	Marriage and family do not distract from priesthood	 Marriage and family do not distract from priesthood Thomas DeMatteo, a non-practicing Catholic from Dingmans Ferry, Delaware, USA: "There are pastors and ministers who are allowed to marry and it doesn't affect their job in doing God's work. I really don't see a problem with priests being able to wed."[1]
pro_1_2	Married priests could better consult married churchgoers	 Married priests could better consult married churchgoers Priests are counselors in many ways, counseling individuals on their lives and how they can better reach God. Because marriage is such an important part of living a moral life, it would be valuable for priests to be married so that they can better understand their married churchgoers and provide better counseling as a result. 
pro_1_3	Marriage/sex are sacred; priests should be allowed to marry	 Marriage/sex are sacred; priests should be allowed to marry Paragraph 2362 of the Catechism of the Catholic Church (2nd ed.) says: "The acts in marriage by which the intimate and chaste union of the spouses takes place are noble and honourable; the truly human performance of these acts fosters the self-giving they signify and enriches the spouses in joy and gratitude."[2]
pro_1_4	Statements that Catholic priests should be allowed to marry	Statements that Catholic priests should be allowed to marry Bishop McMahon: "There is no reason why priests shouldn't be allowed to marry. It has always been a matter of discipline rather than doctrine."[3]
pro_1_5	Celibacy forces priests to live lonely life; bad for Church	 Celibacy forces priests to live lonely life; bad for Church Ann Bain. "Should Catholic priests be allowed to marry?". Times Online, Comment. October 11, 2005: "Of course priests should be allowed to marry. There is nothing sadder than seeing an old priest live out his days with no family of his own; the zeal and fervour of youth has gone and ahead, loneliness." 
con_1_1	Celibate priests avoid being torn between God and family	 Celibate priests avoid being torn between God and family Andrea Lemieux. "Should Roman Catholic Priests Be Allowed to Marry?". Washington Post. November 7, 2004: "Roman Catholic priests should not be allowed to be married. They are to be Christ's earthly representatives, to live as He did, and that cannot be done with a wife in tow. When a priest takes his vows, he consecrates his life completely to God and forsakes all earthly attachments. A man cannot serve two masters, and it would be far too easy to follow a wife's wishes over God's [...] I personally love having a non-married priesthood. I never have to worry about whether I am taking away from a child's time, or a wife's time, if I call up with an emergency."
headline_2	Religious doctrine: Would allowing priests to marry comply with religious doctrine?
pro_2_1	Celibacy is not divine law, only Church law	 Celibacy is not divine law, only Church law Muriel Porter. "Church will benefit if priests are able to marry". The Age. January 31, 2005: "Unlike the issue of women priests, which the Pope has declared to be theologically impossible, the celibacy requirement is not a matter of church doctrine. Rather, it is a discipline only formally imposed on the clergy in 1139, when a church council declared clerical marriage invalid. What the church has banned, the church can restore."
pro_2_2	Priestly celibacy is unnatural	 Priestly celibacy is unnatural Adrian Ryan. "Should Catholic priests be allowed to marry?". Times Online, Comment. October 11, 2005: "Celibacy is an unnatural state. How can a priest be expected to advise on the complexities of a normal marital relationship when he himself is utterly ignorant? It is only natural that a priest would want to marry, have a family and experience the love, affection, and fulfillment that marriage can bring. It is high time that the Church recognised and encouraged it. Adrian Ryan, Ardara, Ireland."
pro_2_3	Men inclined to love/marry should not be forbidden priesthood	 Men inclined to love/marry should not be forbidden priesthood Oliveiro Vernie. "Should Catholic priests be allowed to marry?". Times Online. October 11, 2005: "It is ridiculous to bar a man from becoming or being a priest simply because he has happened to fall deeply in love with a woman."
con_2_1	Bible clearly and rationally forbids priests from marrying	 Bible clearly and rationally forbids priests from marrying Unmarried 1 Corinthians 7:32b–35 NIV: "An unmarried man is concerned about the Lord's affairs—how he can please the Lord. But a married man is concerned about the affairs of this world—how he can please his wife— and his interests are divided. An unmarried woman or virgin is concerned about the Lord's affairs: Her aim is to be devoted to the Lord in both body and spirit. But a married woman is concerned about the affairs of this world—how she can please her husband. I am saying this for your own good, not to restrict you, but that you may live in a right way in undivided devotion to the Lord."[4]
headline_3	Tradition: Is it wrong to maintain the tradition of Catholic priest celibacy?
pro_3_1	Catholic Church did not adopt celibacy until second millennium	 Catholic Church did not adopt celibacy until second millennium Rev. Donald Cozzens. "Commentary: Celibacy should be rethought". CNN. May 15, 2009: "More and more Catholics today are coming to understand that celibacy as a universal law for priests had its origins in the 12th century and that during the church's first millennium, priests and bishops -- and at least thirty-nine popes -- were married."
pro_3_2	Other priests can marry, Roman Catholics should be able to	 Other priests can marry, Roman Catholics should be able to Joseph Snyder. "Should Roman Catholic Priests Be Allowed to Marry?". Washington Post, Letter to the Editor. November 7, 2004: "Eastern Orthodox Catholic priests are allowed to marry. Also, certain married Protestant priests may convert as priests to the Roman Catholic faith. Obviously, the precedent for married Catholic priests is already established. So the question is not 'if' Roman Catholic priests should be married but 'when.'"
pro_3_3	Married men don't have to divorce upon entering priesthood	 Married men don't have to divorce upon entering priesthood John Aloysius Farrell. "Catholic Church Should End Celibacy Rule, Let Rev. Cutie and Other Priests Marry". US News and World Report. May 12, 2009: "if you come to the priesthood already married, the church doesn't make you divorce. There are practicing Catholic married priests, and the world has not come to a flaming end."
con_3_1	Church should maintain tradition of celibacy	 Church should maintain tradition of celibacy R.N. Lentejas Jr. "Debate: Priests should be permitted to marry". Helium: "I believe that priests in the Latin Church should live a celibate life to maintain the rich tradition of the Church. It has been a universal notion from time immemorial until today and until the future that priests are celibates for the sake of the Kingdom of God. This is a universal understanding from across the globe unique to Catholic priests alone, because there are priests in other Christian churches who are actually married. There exists among them (Catholic priests) a universal concept of brotherhood, surpassing the many barriers of race, culture, ethnic origin, economic standing, and many others."
con_3_2	Allowing priests to marry insults celibate	 Allowing priests to marry insults celibate Archbishop John Foley, a Vatican spokesman, said in 2005: "I think it would be an insult to the priests who have remained faithful to readmit these individuals who have left the priesthood in order to marry."[5]
headline_4	Sexual abuse: Will allowing priests to marry lower sexual abuse in Church?
pro_4_1	Allowing priests to marry would reduce sexual abuse	 Allowing priests to marry would reduce sexual abuse Louise Linehan, a non-practicing Catholic from Dingmans Ferry: "I think priests should be allowed to marry because it might lessen the sexual abuse cases there are in the church."[6] 
con_4_1	Priestly celibacy does not encourage sexual predation	 Priestly celibacy does not encourage sexual predation "Should Catholic priests be allowed to marry? I don’t think so." Pearls of Nonsense. May 12th, 2009: "Remember several years ago when celibacy was blamed by the media for creating pedophiles? It’s shocking how many otherwise intelligent people still fervently believe that not having sex with women makes men have sex with young boys."
con_4_2	Lifting celibacy enables sexual exploitation by priests	 Lifting celibacy enables sexual exploitation by priests It would allow priests to take advantage of their position of power to seek to date or court women. And, it would create an heir of suspicion among church-goers regarding whether a priest is abusing their position. 
headline_5	Vocations: Would allowing priests to marry increase vocations?
pro_5_1	Priests should be allowed to marry to increase vocations	 Priests should be allowed to marry to increase vocations Muriel Porter. "Church will benefit if priests are able to marry". The Age. January 31, 2005: "The present plea is justified on the basis that drastic action is needed to restore priestly numbers, which in the Western world have dropped markedly over the past 30 years. In Australia the decline is estimated to be about 20 per cent overall, with a much greater drop - about two-thirds - in the numbers of trainee priests. [...] The requirement of priestly celibacy is perhaps the sole reason for this unprecedented decline. The Anglican and Protestant churches, which permit their clergy to marry, have not suffered any significant shortage of trainees over the same period."
con_5_1	Allowing priests to marry would not increase vocations	 Allowing priests to marry would not increase vocations Kathryn Nicole Stockhausen. "Should Roman Catholic Priests Be Allowed to Marry?". Washington Post. November 7, 2004: "I have heard some who state that it would lead to an increase in vocations, but there is not a single piece of statistical data to prove that. Of those who have contemplated a vocation to the priesthood, very few have stated that a vow of celibacy was a stumbling block that they could not overcome. In fact, I have known of many ordained individuals who see celibacy as a blessing, and as a way to allow them to focus more on their vocation of service to others and to the church."
headline_6	Finances: Would allowing priests to marry help/hurt Church finances?
pro_6_1	Church policy on marriage is greedy effort to maximize revenues.	Church policy on marriage is greedy effort to maximize revenues. By banning marriage, the Church prevents the assets of a priest from going to his family, ensuring instead that it goes to the Church. This is an unfortunate abuse of Church power to acquire wealth.
con_6_1	Allowing priests to marry would require Church pay them more	 Allowing priests to marry would require Church pay them more Kathryn Nicole Stockhausen. "Should Roman Catholic Priests Be Allowed to Marry?". Washington Post. November 7, 2004: "And as for financial considerations, most Roman Catholic priests, especially diocesan ones, receive a substantial portion of their pay in the form of in-kind contributions. This would be difficult to maintain if a priest took on a wife and children, and their pay would have to be increased as well. The church, especially in America, is having enough financial problems right now without adding to it by allowing priests to marry."
