title	Merit pay for teachers
question	Is merit-based pay for teachers a good idea?
headline_1	Education: Does merit-based pay improve education?
pro_1_1	Merit pay improves teaching and student learning	 Merit pay improves teaching and student learning The Achievement Challenge Pilot Project (ACPP) is a five school merit pay program in Little Rock, Arkansas. Teachers could earn as much as an $11,000 bonus based on how much their students’ test scores improved. Researchers from the University of Arkansas reported on the program: "Students of teachers who are eligible for performance bonuses enjoy academic benefits. Further, many of the criticisms of merit pay programs simply have not proven true in Little Rock."[1]
pro_1_2	Merit pay gives teachers an incentive to work harder	 Merit pay gives teachers an incentive to work harder Beth Lewis. "Pros and Cons of Merit Pay For Teachers". About.com: "Incentivized teachers will work harder and produce better results. What motivation do teachers currently have to go above and beyond the job's basic requirements? The simple possibility of extra cash would most likely translate into smarter teaching and better results for our children."
con_1_1	Merit pay does nothing to improve student performance	 Merit pay does nothing to improve student performance A study by the Urban Institute found some positive short-lived effects of merit pay, but concluded that most merit pay plans "did not succeed at implementing lasting, effective ... plans that had a demonstrated ability to improve student learning. ...little evidence from other research...that incentive programs (particularly pay-for-performance) had led to improved teacher performance and student achievements."[2]
con_1_2	Merit pay motivates teachers to over-focus on test scores	 Merit pay motivates teachers to over-focus on test scores Vivian Troen and Katherine C. Boles. "How ‘Merit Pay’ Squelches Teaching". Boston Globe. September 28, 2005: "The idea of merit pay, sometimes called pay for performance, was born in England around 1710. Teachers' salaries were based on their students' test scores on examinations in reading, writing, and arithmetic. The result was that teachers and administrators became obsessed with financial rewards and punishments, and curriculums were narrowed to include only the testable basics. ... So drawing, science, and music disappeared. Teaching became more mechanical as teachers found that drill and rote repetition produced the 'best' results. Both teachers and administrators were tempted to falsify results, and many did. The plan was ultimately dropped, signaling the fate of every merit plan initiative ever since."
headline_2	Quality teachers: Does merit pay help attract/retain quality teachers?
pro_2_1	Merit-based pay helps attract and keep quality teachers	 Merit-based pay helps attract and keep quality teachers Darcy Ann Olsen. "Teachers Deserve Merit Pay, Not Special Interest Pay". CATO. May 22, 2001: "Pay for performance is not a new concept. It works for businessmen, lawyers, waitresses, travel agents, journalists, athletes, accountants, in fact, for most of us. Why not teachers? If a school faces a teacher shortage, let wages increase to attract them. Let schools compete to secure, retain and reward the best teachers. Let schools say "sayonara" to those unable or unwilling to get the job done."
pro_2_2	Merit-pay helps attract teachers where there are shortages	 Merit-pay helps attract teachers where there are shortages Beth Lewis. "Pros and Cons of Merit Pay For Teachers". About.com: "We are in the middle of a teaching shortage. Merit pay would inspire potential teachers to give the profession more consideration as a viable career choice, rather than a personal sacrifice for the higher good. By tying teaching salaries to performance, the profession would look more modern and credible, thus attracting young college graduates to the classroom."
con_2_1	Merit pay focuses teachers on measures over their passion	 Merit pay focuses teachers on measures over their passion "Top Ten Reasons Why Merit Pay for Teachers Is a Terrible Idea". Education Portal. July 10th, 2007: "7. The Definition of 'Merit' is Too Broad ... Every performance based pay program for teachers that is currently in effect works differently. Some programs allow teachers to up their pay for things that don't truly help students-like filling out paperwork-rather than things that can be less easily measured. It makes the idea of merit less meaningful for an individual who most likely became a teacher to help students."
con_2_2	Merit pay undercuts valuable cooperation between teachers	 Merit pay undercuts valuable cooperation between teachers "No merit to merit pay". United Teachers Los Angeles. November 9, 2007: "Teacher unions have historically resisted merit pay proposals because they undermine one of the core principles of teaching and learning: collaboration. Whether it is the informal discussion that takes place in the lunchroom or the more formal exchanges based on grade level, department, or small learning communities, these are only successful because as teachers we understand teaching is about working together to help our students, not competition for better pay."
con_2_3	Merit pay discourages teaching disadvantaged students	 Merit pay discourages teaching disadvantaged students "Top Ten Reasons Why Merit Pay for Teachers Is a Terrible Idea". Education Portal. July 10th, 2007: "4. Some Teachers are Punished ... Should a teacher who chooses to teach at a large school, an inner city school, or a special needs school where tests scores are generally lower be punished? Definitely not, but that is exactly what some merit pay programs threaten to do."
headline_3	Measuring merit: Can teacher merit be accurately measured?
pro_3_1	Teacher merit can be measured and help determine pay	 Teacher merit can be measured and help determine pay Robert Holland. "Merit Pay for Teachers: Can Common Sense Come to Public Education?". Lexington Institute. October 2005: "[Opponents of merit based pay] have argued that teacher evaluation is too subjective for merit pay to be distributed fairly.... [the] 'subjectivity' excuse for stonewalling merit pay is no longer valid, no matter what small degree of validity it ever had. The Great Excuse has been rendered null and void by a revolutionary development in education: the rise of value-added assessment (VAA).... As pioneered by Dr. William Sanders at the University of Tennessee in the early 1990s, VAA enables education supervisors (and the teachers themselves) to look at objective evidence of how effectively the teachers are helping individual students improve their achievement test scores year to year. This statistical analysis can inform teachers who seek to improve. It can also provide a basis for handsomely rewarding those teachers who make a real difference with their students."
con_3_1	Teacher merit is too hard to measure for merit-pay to be fair	 Teacher merit is too hard to measure for merit-pay to be fair "Oppose Merit-Based Pay for Teachers". The Falcon's View. March 10, 2009: "the problem with merit-based pay is that there's no reasonable, rational, consistent way to measure performance... teaching is more art than science. Every student is different, with a unique perspective, background, learning style, and, more importantly, pace of development. To penalize a teacher for having a group of students who develop more slowly than others is absurd. No matter how good the teacher is, there's no way to force a child to develope faster than they're capable of doing."
con_3_2	Student performance does not demonstrate teacher performance	 Student performance does not demonstrate teacher performance "Top Ten Reasons Why Merit Pay for Teachers Is a Terrible Idea". Education Portal. July 10th, 2007: "There are several problems with basing how much a teacher should make on student performance. The most important: there are too many other variables besides teacher effort that determine an individual's and a class' performance."
con_3_3	Merit pay for teachers is tied to unreliable standardized tests	 Merit pay for teachers is tied to unreliable standardized tests "Top Ten Reasons Why Merit Pay for Teachers Is a Terrible Idea". Education Portal. July 10, 2007: "1. Standardized Test Scores May Be Unreliable. Most merit pay programs are tied to the scores students receive on the tests required by Bush's No Child Left Behind Law. As the American Federation for Teachers and the National Education Association have pointed out, these standardized test scores are seldom reliable and do not provide an accurate barometer of a teacher's performance."
headline_4	Fairness: Is merit-based pay fair?
pro_4_1	Better teachers should be paid more	 Better teachers should be paid more President Barack Obama said in March of 2009: teachers should be treated "like the professionals they are while also [being held] more accountable. Good teachers will be rewarded with more money for improved student achievement, and asked to accept more responsibilities for lifting up their schools."[3]
pro_4_2	Teachers should be paid on merit, not seniority and titles	 Teachers should be paid on merit, not seniority and titles "Link Teacher Pay, Student Gains."  An Atlanta Journal-Constitution. October 14, 2005.: "As substitutes for performance-based standards, school systems now reward teachers on degrees and seniority. Yet neither of those measures may correlate with student achievement. In this competitive economy, companies would close their doors if they paid low-performing employees the highest salaries just because they’d been there a long time or had a grad school diploma on their wall."[5]
con_4_1	Merit pay punishes teachers assigned to bad students	 Merit pay punishes teachers assigned to "bad" students "the final word on why merit pay is bullshit". Journeys of Jack Tripper. April 29, 2009: "It penalizes teachers who are assigned students with bad parents or bad backgrounds".
con_4_2	While teachers can be incentivized, students cannot	 While teachers can be incentivized, students cannot "Top Ten Reasons Why Merit Pay for Teachers Is a Terrible Idea". Education Portal. July 10th, 2007: "Teachers only have so much control over how much and how fast a child can learn. Even if they are willing to go the extra mile, state law may not allow them to do so. For example, in California, teachers cannot require students to stay after class or school to get help."
con_4_3	Merit pay for teachers risks favoritism and cronyism	 Merit pay for teachers risks favoritism and cronyism A merit-based system creates a risk of favoritism from principals, which creates moral and legal issues.  
con_4_4	Merit pay motivates teachers to cheat on test-scoring	 Merit pay motivates teachers to cheat on test-scoring Merit pay creates an incentive for teachers to cheat, by improving student test scores so that they can appear to be doing better as a result of the teacher's work, resulting in bonuses and higher pay. Obviously, the resulting differences in pay would not be fair.
headline_5	More pay: Is merit-based pay a good way to increase teacher pay?
pro_5_1	Teachers should be paid more; based on merit	 Teachers should be paid more; based on merit Darcy Ann Olsen. "Teachers Deserve Merit Pay, Not Special Interest Pay". CATO. May 22, 2001: "This article appeared on cato.org on May 22, 2001. "Teachers need more money, according to a new survey by the American Federation of Teachers. Noting that teacher salaries last year climbed 3.2 percent, or 0.2 percent less than inflation, AFT president Sandra Feldman said, 'Salaries must at least become competitive to attract and keep quality teachers.'"
con_5_1	All teachers should be paid more, not just a select few	 All teachers should be paid more, not just a select few Beth Lewis. "Pros and Cons of Merit Pay For Teachers". About.com: "Opponents to Merit Pay argue that a better solution to the current educational crisis is to pay all teachers more. Rather than design and regulate a messy Merit Pay program, why not simply pay teachers what they are already worth?"
headline_6	Markets: Does merit pay in the market set a good model for pay in schools?
pro_6_1	Merit pay works in markets, can work for teachers	 Merit pay works in markets, can work for teachers Darcy Ann Olsen. "Teachers Deserve Merit Pay, Not Special Interest Pay". CATO. May 22, 2001: "Pay for performance is not a new concept. It works for businessmen, lawyers, waitresses, travel agents, journalists, athletes, accountants, in fact, for most of us. Why not teachers? If a school faces a teacher shortage, let wages increase to attract them. Let schools compete to secure, retain and reward the best teachers. Let schools say "sayonara" to those unable or unwilling to get the job done."
con_6_1	Merit pay is uncommon in business, unnecessary in schools	 Merit pay is uncommon in business, unnecessary in schools "The myth of private-sector performance pay". Economic Policy Institute. May 13, 2009: "Proponents of pay-for-performance for teachers argue that such compensation models are ubiquitous in the private sector. [...] However, a new EPI book shows that this conventional wisdom is inaccurate. [...] In Teachers, Performance Pay, and Accountability, economists Scott Adams and John Heywood [...] find that, contrary to the claims by advocates of teacher merit pay, 'relatively few private-sector workers have pay that varies in a direct, formulaic way with their productivity, and that the share of such workers is probably declining.'"
con_6_2	Merit pay for teachers would be a bureaucratic nightmare	 Merit pay for teachers would be a bureaucratic nightmare Beth Lewis. "Pros and Cons of Merit Pay For Teachers". About.com: "Virtually everyone agrees that designing and monitoring a Merit Pay program would be a bureaucratic nightmare of almost epic proportions. Many major questions would have to be adequately answered before educators could even consider implementing Merit Pay for teachers. Such deliberations would inevitably take away from our real goal which is to focus on the students and give them the best education possible."
headline_7	Unions: How do unions relate to merit pay?
pro_7_1	Teachers unions oppose merit-based pay just to remain relevant	 Teachers unions oppose merit-based pay just to remain relevant Thomas Hruz. "Quality Control: Merit Pay and Why the Teachers’ Unions Stand in the Way." Wisconsin Interest. Fall 2000: "The threat that teachers’ unions see from a performance-based pay system is clear: it would make them less relevant. The importance of teachers’ unions is reliant upon their superior ability to get for teachers better working conditions and compensation. If individual teachers, or groups of teachers within schools, are able to garner control over the effectuation of their own compensation levels, then the unions are faced with the potential of these teachers saying that the unions’ services are no longer needed, at least when it comes to bargaining for salaries."[6]
con_7_1	Merit pay divides teacher unions, undermines collective bargaining	 Merit pay divides teacher unions, undermines collective bargaining "No merit to merit pay". United Teachers Los Angeles. November 9, 2007: "From a labor perspective merit pay would also divide the work force and in the long run lessen our ability to fight collectively to improve public education. If salaries were not simply based on years of experience and number of college credits earned or additional services provided, the teaching force at any workplace would be more stratified (differentiated) and much less willing to stand together during a conflict with school site management or during a contract struggle. The role of the union would be seriously compromised."
headline_8	Case studies: What do past case studies demonstrate regarding merit pay?
pro_8_1	Merit-based pay has succeeded in many places	 Merit-based pay has succeeded in many places Steven Malanga. "Why Merit Pay Will Improve Teaching". About.com. Summer 2001: "Cincinnati’s public school system, the first to experiment with performance incentives, persuaded its teachers’ union in 1997 to do a test run of merit pay. Two years later, a ten-school pilot program, designed by administrators and teachers, got under way. Essential to union support was the pilot’s proposed use of peers to evaluate teachers. 'The peer evaluators, who have no stake in how teachers are judged, are important to the perception of the fairness of the system,' observes Kathleen Ware, associate superintendent of Cincinnati schools. Using Danielson’s criteria of good teaching—they include class preparation and clarity of presentation—the principals and peer evaluators devoted 20 to 30 hours to assessing every teacher in the ten chosen schools. Based on how they scored, teachers then wound up in one of five salary categories, with "novices" making the least money and 'accomplished' teachers the most. [...] The pilot proved successful. A majority of teachers involved found it fair and judged the standards used as appropriate for the whole school district. The city’s board of education adopted it in the spring of 2000, and, in a subsequent election, union members signed on."
con_8_1	Past examples of merit pay for teachers have failed	 Past examples of merit pay for teachers have failed Vivian Troen and Katherine C. Boles. "How ‘Merit Pay’ Squelches Teaching". Boston Globe. September 28, 2005: "Merit pay comes in many forms and flavors -- including extra bonuses for student achievement gains, satisfactory evaluations by principals or committees, acquiring additional duties, gaining new skills and knowledge, and serving in hard-to-staff schools. We've looked at dozens of plans in North America, South America, Asia, Europe, and the Middle East. Guess what? None of them, past and present, has ever had a successful track record. None has ever produced its intended results. Any gains have been minimal, short-lived, and expensive to achieve."
