title	AIG bonuses
question	Were AIG's 2009 $165m bonuses justified? Or, should they be reneged or taxed?
headline_1	Morality: Were AIG's bonuses morally justified?
pro_1_1	Most AIG employees are blameless and earned bonuses	 Most AIG employees are blameless and earned bonuses "In defense of AIG bonus". TPM Blog. March 16, 2009 - "other depatments that made money should not fall under the same derision.  Maybe a guy doing a good job trading in currency futures made what would have been a 10 billion loss into a 9 billion loss.  Shouldnt he be compensated.  And what about all the day to day claims and underwriters who have nothing to do with CDS, should they be penalized along with the risk takers in the swap department? This is a big company, and while it is in bad shape due to it's own poor risk management, not every department should suffer for the faults of a few."
pro_1_2	Bonuses controversy wrongly scapegoats AIG employees	 Bonuses controversy wrongly scapegoats AIG employees Wayne Outten, Managing Partner Outten & Golden LLP. "Opinion: In Defense Of The AIG Bonuses". MSNBC. March 23, 2009 - "the AIG employees who are being vilified by Congress and others should not be scapegoated. Congress is considering laws aimed specifically at revoking or recouping the retention payments. Federal and state officials have threatened to publicize their names. Some have received death threats. Their homes have been monitored. Their children are afraid to go to school."  
pro_1_3	Congress cannot punish AIG with laws attainder	 Congress cannot punish AIG with "laws attainder" Wayne Outten. "Opinion: In Defense Of The AIG Bonuses". CNBC. March 23, 2009 - "As Americans, we must uphold the rule of law even when—and especially when—it’s difficult and challenges our sense of fairness. We are justifiably proud of our Constitution, which protects individuals against abuses of power by the government. Our Constitution prohibits Congress and the states from passing 'bills of attainder' (laws that aim to punish a single person or specific group of people) and from enacting ex post facto laws (laws that criminalize conduct retroactively); the latter prohibition recognizes the fundamental unfairness of punishing someone for doing something that was lawful when they did it." 
pro_1_4	Punishing AIG bonuses only caters to populist anger	 Punishing AIG bonuses only caters to populist anger "Rumbling on. The Row over Bonuses". Economist.com. March 23, 2009 - "In an appearance on the Jay Leno show he sang along with the chorus of disapproval and maintained that America had to get back to 'an attitude where people know enough is enough' and a 'sense of responsibility'. It was left to Mr Leno to say he thought it a 'little scary' that the government could impose a tax on someone it doesn't like. [...] Recessions produce economic insecurity and are ripe for populist politics. The danger is that Mr Obama risks being seen to be pandering to populism." 
pro_1_5	Supporters of AIG bailout can't complain about bonuses	 Supporters of AIG bailout can't complain about bonuses Supporters of the no-string-attached bailout of AIG cannot now complain about the bonuses. It is a natural consequence of the TARP fund and the lack of controls associated with it.
con_1_1	AIG bonuses reward those responsible for collapse	 AIG bonuses reward those responsible for collapse "Commentary: AIG bonuses are just part of the problem". The Fort Worth Star-Telegram (Editorial). March 19, 2009 - "the bulk of the bonus bonanza went to employees who worked in an AIG unit responsible for peddling risky financial products known as 'credit default swaps,' a form of insurance heavily tied to subprime mortgages and the housing industry collapse."
con_1_2	AIG bonuses represent company's greed	 AIG bonuses represent company's greed "Commentary: AIG bonuses are just part of the problem". The Fort Worth Star-Telegram (Editorial). March 19, 2009 - "The American International Group bonuses symbolize the wretched excess, greed and irresponsibility that have plagued much of the business world in recent years. [...] The obscenely obese bonuses total $220 million to hundreds of employees, with $55 million awarded in December and another $165 million in retention bonuses paid last week, according to news reports. Seventy-three employees got bonuses of $1 million or more and the biggest bonus was nearly $6.5 million, The Associated Press reported. [...] For these undeservedly lucky folks, AIG must stand for 'Ain't It Grand?' But for the average bonus-deprived taxpayer, it stands for 'Ain't It Greed?'"
con_1_3	AIG bonuses are an insult to suffering taxpayers	 AIG bonuses are an insult to suffering taxpayers Sens. Max Baucus, D-Montana - "'Millions of Americans are losing their jobs -- millions. And to some degree, they're losing their jobs because of actions taken by some of these firms. At the same time, they're giving themselves bonuses. I mean, give me a break. What are these people thinking? That's part of the problem. They're not thinking.'"[2]
con_1_4	AIG was bailed out by taxpayers; bonuses are wrong	 AIG was bailed out by taxpayers; bonuses are wrong President Obama: "In the last six months, A.I.G. has received substantial sums from the U.S. Treasury. How do they justify this outrage to the taxpayers who are keeping the company afloat?"[3]
con_1_5	Justice of reneging AIG bonuses would be worth costs	 Justice of reneging AIG bonuses would be worth costs James Surowiecki. "The A.I.G. Bonuses and Altruistic Punishment". New Yorker. March 18, 2009 - "when it comes to the A.I.G. bonuses, the costs of clawing them back are trivial at best, while the public satisfaction at seeing what feels like justice being served will be great. Getting all worked up about this money may not, strictly speaking, be rational, but I think that paradoxically, if some of this money is clawed back, it’ll increase the chances that we’ll be able to keep dealing with the ongoing crisis in a rational way in the future."
headline_2	Contract: Was AIG obligated by contract to give bonuses?
pro_2_1	AIG is obligated by contract with employees to give bonuses	 AIG is obligated by contract with employees to give bonuses Jake DeSantis, an executive VP in AIG's financial products unit. "Dear A.I.G., I Quit!". New York Times (Op-ed). March 24, 2009 - "As most of us have done nothing wrong, guilt is not a motivation to surrender our earnings. We have worked 12 long months under these contracts and now deserve to be paid as promised. None of us should be cheated of our payments any more than a plumber should be cheated after he has fixed the pipes but a careless electrician causes a fire that burns down the house."[5]
pro_2_2	AIG employees fulfilled terms of bonus contracts	 AIG employees fulfilled terms of bonus contracts Frank Snyder, professor of law at Texas Wesleyan University and editor in chief of ContractsProf Blog. New York Times Room for Debate. March 17, 2009 - "the party raising the defense [AIG] has received all of what it bargained for (the employees’ services) and the other party (the [AIG] employee[s]) has done everything he or she was supposed to do."[6]
pro_2_3	AIG employees turned down jobs on basis of bonus contracts	 AIG employees turned down jobs on basis of bonus contracts Jake DeSantis, an executive VP in AIG's financial products unit. "Dear A.I.G., I Quit!". New York Times (Op-ed). March 24, 2009 - "Many of the employees have, in the past six months, turned down job offers from more stable employers, based on A.I.G.’s assurances that the contracts would be honored. They are now angry about having been misled by A.I.G.’s promises and are not inclined to return the money as a favor to you."[7]
pro_2_4	AIG did not file for bankruptcy; bonus contracts still valid	 AIG did not file for bankruptcy; bonus contracts still valid Thomas Keeley. "In Defense of AIG Bonuses". DC Republican. March 18, 2009 - "it’s important to remember that bankruptcy is one of the legal protections a business has to get themselves out of the potentially crippling contracts without having to go through a sea of red tape and individual legal proceedings. [...] Just as is the case with any company, AIG had the option to file bankruptcy, go into protection and remove these contracts. However, the United States felt that AIG was too big to fail, and decided that instead of letting them go bankrupt, they would give them the money they needed to continue doing what they thought was needed to become solid again."
pro_2_5	Violating AIG contracts undermines contracts generally	 Violating AIG contracts undermines contracts generally Andrew Ross Sorkin. "The Case for Paying Out Bonuses at A.I.G.". New York Times. March 16, 2009 - "As much as we might want to void those A.I.G. pay contracts, Pearl Meyer, a compensation consultant at Steven Hall & Partners, says it would put American business on a worse slippery slope than it already is. Business agreements of other companies that have taken taxpayer money might fall into question. Even companies that have not turned to Washington might seize the opportunity to break inconvenient contracts."
pro_2_6	Reneging AIG contracts undermines govt programs/contracts	 Reneging AIG contracts undermines govt programs/contracts "Ruth Marcus: The case for AIG bonuses". Washington Post. March 18, 2009 - "In the longer term, having the government void existing contracts, directly or indirectly, as with the suggestions of a punitive tax on such bonuses, will make enterprises less likely to enter into arrangements with the government – even when that is in the national interest. This is similarly counterproductive." 
con_2_1	AIG bonus contracts, like all contracts, are subject to change	 AIG bonus contracts, like all contracts, are subject to change Tom Baker, professor at the University of Pennsylvania Law School, wrote on the New York Times' Room for Debate on March 17, 2009. - "Contracts get repudiated, renegotiated, modified, delayed, worked out, managed — pick the euphemism — all the time. A.I.G. knows this. Its insurance businesses pioneered the use of commercial leverage to get peopleto accept less than what the contract supposedly required."[8]
con_2_2	Failure of employees/execs at AIG invalidates bonus contracts	 Failure of employees/execs at AIG invalidates bonus contracts Those that contributed to AIG's collapse have no legitimate claim to bonuses. Bonus contracts are invalidated by these employees' and executives' failures/ 
con_2_3	Congress can invalidate AIG contracts with cause.	Congress can invalidate AIG contracts with cause. Congress has the constitutional right to invalidate contracts with proper cause. The fact that the AIG bonus follow a taxpayer bailout of AIG is certainly just cause. 
con_2_4	AIG bonus contracts are invalidated by taxpayer bailout	 AIG bonus contracts are invalidated by taxpayer bailout The AIG bonus contracts were certainly valid when they were signed. But, when taxpayers bailed out AIG, circumstances certainly changed. It was no longer simply a contract between AIG and its employees. Suddenly, a third party - the taxpayers and their money - were introduced. And, taxpayers should not be held liable for these bonus contracts. Obviously, this changed the terms of the contracts, and they must be renegotiated.
con_2_5	AIG bonuses would not have been possible without bailout	 AIG bonuses would not have been possible without bailout AIG would not have survived without taxpayer bailout, so they would have entered chapter 11 bankruptcy and the AIG contracts would have been voided. For them to argue that these contracts are inviolable after the bailout is ludicrous. 
con_2_6	AIG signed bonus contracts as golden parachutes (invalid).	AIG signed bonus contracts as golden parachutes (invalid). AIG signed its bonus contracts with its executives with the knowledge that AIG was on very shaky ground in 2008. It is not as if the company was healthy in 2008, when it signed the contracts, and then, all of a sudden, it fell ill in 2009. Therefore, it is plausible and possibly likely that AIG signed these contracts as a means of providing its top executives golden parachutes as the company collapsed around them.
con_2_7	AIG signed bonus contracts on assurances of bailout (invalid).	AIG signed bonus contracts on assurances of bailout (invalid). AIG signed its bonus contracts because it correctly estimated that, despite the risks of the company imploding, the American taxpayers would bail the company out. The US government should not reward this calculation by allowing the bonuses to go forward.  
con_2_8	AIG should reveal contracts so public can judge validity	 AIG should reveal contracts so public can judge validity Charles Fried, professor of contract and constitutional law at Harvard Law School, wrote on New York Times, Room for Debate, on March 17, 2009 - "As we all own 80 percent of the company, we ought to be able to see the text of these contracts. They should be posted on our company’s — that is, A.I.G.’s — Web site. Then we can discuss whether the recipients of that money really earned it."[10]
headline_3	Auto comparison: Are AIG contracts comparable to renegotiated auto contracts?
pro_3_1	Reneging AIG contracts differs from renegotiating Auto contracts	 Reneging AIG contracts differs from renegotiating Auto contracts "Ruth Marcus: The case for AIG bonuses". Washington Post. March 18, 2009 - "But, you ask, what about autoworkers who are being squeezed to renegotiate their contracts? Those renegotiations involve the terms of employment going forward. If an autoworker doesn't want to show up on the assembly line under the terms of that deal, he or she doesn't have to. That's different from telling AIG employees they're not getting the amount on which they agreed for work they've already performed." 
con_3_1	AIG contracts no different than invalidated auto contracts	 AIG contracts no different than invalidated auto contracts Lynn Sweet. "In case of AIG bonus payments, some contracts made to be broken". Chicago Sun Times. March 16, 2009 - "Why are the contracts with AIG execs more valid than the contracts between the automakers and autoworkers? Congress INSISTED that the autoworkers take pay cuts -- and MODIFY THE CONTRACTS they had negotiated -- before the automakers got federal money? . . . If the federal government owns 80% of AIG, what control do we have over the actions of management?" 
headline_4	Significance: Is the AIG bonus issue economically significant?
pro_4_1	AIG bonuses are insignificant relative to larger problems	 AIG bonuses are insignificant relative to larger problems The AIG bonuses were only $165 million. That is very small compared with the hundreds of billions of dollars under consideration in the bialouts and relative to the $12 trillion economy. It is not worth exhausting any more energy on such a relatively small amount of bonuses. 
con_4_1	$165 million AIG bonuses is not chump change	 $165 million AIG bonuses is not chump change Greta Van Susteren, Fox News Host: "Some people are saying, Forget about those bonuses. It's a drop in the bucket compared to the $170 billion you leant to AIG. But you know what, $165 million -- that's a lot of money. [...] We did some research and found some interesting numbers of what you can do or what can you get for $165 million at current market prices. So check this out. You could get more than 2,600 200 Cadillac Escalades. And to fill up that car, $165 million would get you more than 85 million gallons of gas. In that Cadillac, if you're hungry, with $165 million, you could buy more than 39 million McDonald's Happy Meals. [...] So to us, that $165 million -- it just doesn't seem like chump change."[11]
headline_5	AIG recovery: Are bonuses essential to AIG's recovery?
pro_5_1	Bonuses help AIG keep employees and survive	 Bonuses help AIG keep employees and survive "What has AIG done wrong?". Mises.org. March 19, 2009 - "AIG has to pay salaries and bonuses in order to keep its people employed, and to dissuade those in important positions from moving to a different company.  If we can assume that this is true, the government should not be surprised that an influx of money was given out in the form of bonuses.  If it truly comes down to it, would the government rather AIG give bonuses to the people who are vital to the success of the company, or would they rather those people leave and AIG completely fail?" 
pro_5_2	Reneging AIG bonuses would undermine shareholder confidence	 Reneging AIG bonuses would undermine shareholder confidence Thomas Keeley. "In Defense of AIG Bonuses". DC Republican. March 18, 2009 - "Look at this from the role of shareholder: would you want to have the company you’re invested in revoke contracts that were designed to keep your talent on board, during an especially difficult time? If you were in fact a shareholder, and saw that it had the potential to yield a return with the right people and incentive, I would hope you’d say yes." 
pro_5_3	Punishing bonuses will distract AIG from restructuring	 Punishing bonuses will distract AIG from restructuring David Weidner, Marketwatch: "I think what we're doing here is we're cutting off our nose to spite our face because you're going to go after these bonuses, you're creating a lot of disruption at AIG. And right now, AIG as a company is not -- it's not business as usual. This company is struggling. Its insurance business is struggling. They're trying to unwind, you know, billions in derivative contracts. [...] They need people, all hands on deck. They need to be focused. I don't care how terrible they are. They are the people in these jobs. And I think that we're risking billions and billions more by clogging up AIG and its management with fighting these bonuses and answering subpoenas. We know the bonuses are bad, but let's stop them from having bonuses next year."[12]
con_5_1	AIG workers/execs that caused collapse won't help recovery	 AIG workers/execs that caused collapse won't help recovery James P. Tuthill, a lawyer, is a lecturer at the law school at the University of California, Berkeley. "Those Contracts can Be Voided". New York Times Room for Debate. March 17, 2009: "A.I.G.’s argument is that it had to agree to these bonuses to retain the 'best and brightest talent.' But how can these executives be the best and brightest talent when shareholders have been wiped out, bondholders have incurred substantial losses and the American taxpayer has pumped $170 billion into the company?"
con_5_2	AIG employees are not only ones capable of restructuring	 AIG employees are not only ones capable of restructuring Ben W. Heineman, Jr. "AIG's Bonuses: A Dangerous Failure of Leadership". Harvard Business Publishing. March 19, 2009 - "Given the inevitable furor, wouldn't both AIG and Administration officials be prepared to explain why these particular disastrous individuals were the only ones who could clean up the mess? Instead, they simply asserted that was the case, obfuscating the critical facts of what was required and what skills were needed to get the company on track. Why was this restructuring so unique that new people couldn't take it over? And, of course, the retention argument was ludicrous for the large numbers of employees who took the money and ran."
con_5_3	AIG bonuses blackmail taxpayers with threat of collapse	 AIG bonuses blackmail taxpayers with threat of collapse James Hamsher. "Great Idea, Let’s Let AIG Thieves Blackmail Everyone". Firedog Lake. March 17, 2009 - "So what Sorkin is saying is that we should just admit, in a very public way, that we have no ability to regulate the system. That if someone commits fraud and theft on such a massive scale, there's nothing we can do but pay everyone off or they will use their knowledge to steal even more money. He's saying that there is no authority, no viable regulation, no legal structure that can right this mess. All we can do is keep writing checks, pay off the blackmailers and hope that if we let them continue to get rich they won't make matters worse."
headline_6	Recovery: Is allowing AIG bonuses important to larger economic recovery?
pro_6_1	AIG bonuses furor distracts from solving larger crisis.	AIG bonuses furor distracts from solving larger crisis. The AIG controversy is merely a distraction from the much larger crisis at hand in the United States and globally. The dollar amount is much less significant than the amount of time being spent on the issue, and the cost that that time has for on addressing the larger crisis.  
pro_6_2	AIG knows best how to spend bailout (even on bonuses)	 AIG knows best how to spend bailout (even on bonuses) "What has AIG done wrong?". Mises.org. March 19, 2009 - "if you are going to give a company money to fix its problems, let it fix its problems. If it feels like the best way to fix its problems is to give incentives to the heads of the company, let it.  If that does not succeed and the company fails, it is your job to have a pre-agreed comprehensive plan for them to pay back all of the money that was loaned to them."
pro_6_3	AIG got itself into crisis; only it knows how to get out.	AIG got itself into crisis; only it knows how to get out. AIG created the bomb. Only it knows how to diffuse it. Bonuses may be part of that approach, particularly because they are necessary in retaining AIG employees and surviving. 
pro_6_4	AIG bonuses stimulate New York and national economy	 AIG bonuses stimulate New York and national economy Rush Limbaugh. "The Last Man Standing Speaks in Defense of AIG Bailout Bonuses". March 16, 2009 - "What is the number-one asset any company has? It's people. It's employees. This $165 million in bonuses is gonna help estimate the economy. It's going to stimulate the New York City economy, $165 million, one-tenth of 1% of all bailout."
con_6_1	Taxpayer bailout of AIG justifies government control	 Taxpayer bailout of AIG justifies government control The Internal Revenue Service statement - "The IRS recognizes that those entities that receive taxpayer support have a special obligation to pay their taxes, and these taxpayer accounts will remain closely monitored by the IRS to ensure that the full amount of taxes due are paid."[13]
con_6_2	AIG and free markets cannot be relied upon	 AIG and free markets cannot be relied upon Robert Creamer. "AIG Bonus Scandal Spotlights the Bankruptcy of Wall Street's 'Greed is Good' Values". March 15 April, 2009 - "The 'Greed is good era' is over. It died on September 15, 2008 with the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the right wing myth that if everyone looks out for his own self interest the 'invisible hand' would assure that the public interest would take care of itself. More than Lehman Brothers went bankrupt that day. So did Wall Street's entire system of 'greed is good' values."
con_6_3	AIG bonuses make case for bank nationalization	 AIG bonuses make case for bank nationalization Robert Reich - "sordid story…illustrates better than anything to date why the government should take over any institution that’s ‘too big to fail’ and which has cost taxpayers dearly".[14]
headline_7	Government programs: Does maintaining AIG bonuses help government programs?
pro_7_1	Punishing AIG undermines business relations with government	 Punishing AIG undermines business relations with government John Canning, chairman of Chicago-based private-equity firm Madison Dearborn Partners - "What Congress has said is that 'We will be an irrational-acting partner.' It dissuades anybody from taking on a relationship with the government."
pro_7_2	Reneging AIG contracts undermines govt programs/contracts	 Reneging AIG contracts undermines govt programs/contracts "Ruth Marcus: The case for AIG bonuses". Washington Post. March 18, 2009 - "In the longer term, having the government void existing contracts, directly or indirectly, as with the suggestions of a punitive tax on such bonuses, will make enterprises less likely to enter into arrangements with the government – even when that is in the national interest. This is similarly counterproductive." 
pro_7_3	Reneging AIG bonuses will cause more govt intervention	 Reneging AIG bonuses will cause more govt intervention "They Came for the AIG Bonuses, but I was not an AIG Employee…". Protein Wisdom Pub. March 21, 2009 - "If [a tax on AIG bonuses] passes, its death knell.  If Congress suddenly discovers that it can take away money that they decide that someone doesn’t deserve, if we let them get away with that, there’ll be no stopping them. [...] All that will be necessary is to gin up the necessary “outrage” that someone got more than they should have. [...] So ask yourself; how much do you make?  Is it more than your neighbor?  Might someone else think that its not fair that you got something that they didn’t? [...] Because that’s all it will take.  If we let them get away with this."
con_7_1	Allowing AIG bonuses undermines confidence in justice system	 Allowing AIG bonuses undermines confidence in justice system James P. Tuthill, a lecturer at the law school at the University of California, Berkeley. "Those Contracts Can Be Voided". New York Times, Room for Debate. March 17, 2009 - "If we can’t find a way to void these egregious payments and recoup them, then we have a more serious problem because our legal system has grievously failed us by rewarding those who have wrought this economic destruction. Such a systemic failure will destroy confidence in our entire legal system."
con_7_2	Allowing AIG bonuses would undermine government-citizen trust.	Allowing AIG bonuses would undermine government-citizen trust. There is such public outrage over the AIG bailouts, government action in reneging or taxing the bonuses is necessary to maintain a healthy relationship and trust between government and citizens in this trying time. If the government takes no action, a sense will develop that government is ineffectual, which will undermine government programs, precisely when confidence in these programs is needed most.
headline_8	Taxes: Is taxing AIG bonuses a bad idea?
pro_8_1	Taxes should not be used to punish AIG	 Taxes should not be used to punish AIG The Texas Republican Jeb Hensarling - "'You know, this is the wrong instrument to go around and say [about] people that do things that are reprehensible, ‘I’m just going to tax them,’ Hensarling said. 'Who’s up tomorrow? You know, a lot of my colleagues vote on reprehensible legislation — when I’m in power, should I vote to increase their taxes 100 percent?'"[15]
pro_8_2	Government should have regulated bonuses, not tax them	 Government should have regulated bonuses, not tax them Sen. Chuck Grassley, R- Iowa. - "We wouldn't be using the tax code if he had been on top of things and kept the bonuses from going out in the first place."[16]
con_8_1	Taxing AIG bonuses does not violate contracts	 Taxing AIG bonuses does not violate contracts Chris Dodd said that taxing the bonuses "doesn't violate the terms of the contracts".[17] 
con_8_2	If AIG bonuses are not returned voluntarily, tax them	 If AIG bonuses are not returned voluntarily, tax them Democratic Sen. Barbara Boxer said, "Those bonuses ought to be returned voluntarily. If they are not returned they ought to be taxed as close to 100% as we can get."[18]
