title	Free public transportation
question	Should all public transport be free and paid for by the state?
headline_1	Would free public transport help the environment?
pro_1_1	Free pubilc transport would reduce the number of cars on the road.	Free pubilc transport would reduce the number of cars on the road. Global warming is a serious issue and if public transport was free, more people would use it, taking cars off the road. 1 train could take 2000 cars off the road. A public transport system with 20 trains could take 40,000 cars off the road. Some people would simply choose to not own cars, further reducing the number of cars on the road. Across dozens of cities in a nation and thousands world-wide, the result of free public transport would be dramatic in cutting vehicle emissions and combating global warming.  
con_1_1	We would need more public transport.	We would need more public transport. Buses, planes, trains etc. all harm the environment, just as cars do. If everyone used public transport, more buses would pollute cities. It should also be mentioned that the manufacturing and creation of a public transport system is very energy intensive, drawing largely on coal and fossil fuels for energy. This releases significant carbon emissions into the atmosphere.  
headline_2	Can the state pay for public transport services?
pro_2_1	The Government's job is to provide services.	The Government's job is to provide services. This would be a great service that could be used by everyone. Taxes already pay for health care, schools and roads etc. so why not let taxpayers see the benefits for themselves, in a useful service everyone can use.
pro_2_2	The environment would greatly benefit.	The environment would greatly benefit. As well as providing services, the govermnet should look out for the environment. No amount of money is too much to protect the environment.
con_2_1	With the financial crisis, we can't afford to spend more money on something like this.	With the financial crisis, we can't afford to spend more money on something like this. It would cost too much for the government to pay for running public transport services. With the economic crisis, it needs to spend the money on other more important things.
headline_3	Would this create jobs?
pro_3_1	We would need more public transport workers.	We would need more public transport workers. With increased and better public transport, we would need more bus and train drivers, creating jobs. This is great with the global financial crisis. And it work make it easier for people to get to their job - they could just get on a bus.
con_3_1	Car sales would drop significantly.	Car sales would drop significantly. If it were free for everyone to get to work, families wouldn't need two or three cars; just one or even none, depending on their availability to public transport of course. Most families have several cars, and one is used just for someone to get to work each day. This wouldn't be necessary. It would hurt the car indudtry and car makers would most likely lose their jobs, and car companies may collapse, which is very bad news.
con_3_2	There are many people who would also lose their jobs.	There are many people who would also lose their jobs. People like conductors, parking cops and plenty of other people wouldn't have their jobs any more, because their services would be no longer required.
headline_4	Would this just put more strain on already poor public transport services?
pro_4_1	The government would be forced to improve public transport.	The government would be forced to improve public transport. With more users, bad public transport networks would be improved by the government, to make it worthwhile using. Bad networks would be greatly improved, and the benefits can be used by everyone. Its definitely a worthwhile incentive.
pro_4_2	A lot of public transport companies are reliable and need more customers.	A lot of public transport companies are reliable and need more customers. Most public transport organisations offer friendly and reliable service and could do with some more "customers". They would be happy to take them and it would get cars off the road.
con_4_1	Some public transport cities are already terrible; this would just increase the strain.	Some public transport cities are already terrible; this would just increase the strain. Some public transport netowrks are already crowded and/or unreliable. With increased customers and pressure, these networks wouldn't manage.
con_4_2	If it was free, companies would not be expected to provide top service, because they are not paying customers.	If it was free, companies would not be expected to provide top service, because they are not paying customers. Generally when you pay a little bit more, you are paying for a good service. But if you aren't paying anything, and heaps of people are using the service, you can't expect top-notch customer service. Generally people look after paying customers more. If it was free, companies could lower their service under the excuse that its customers aren't paying anything so they should just "get what their given".
headline_5	If public transport were free, would more people use it?
pro_5_1	Single or zero fare maximizes the efficiency, convenience and attractiveness of public transport systems for both users and operators in inner cities	Single or zero fare maximizes the efficiency, convenience and attractiveness of public transport systems for both users and operators in inner cities "The option of a single and potentially free public transport fare zone in the Sydney CBD should be examined as a way of immediately simplifying fare structures, eliminating CBD interchange fare penalties, eliminating other CBD fare anomalies and maximising the efficiency, convenience and attractiveness of CBD public transport systems for both users and operators." Independent Public Inquiry - Sydney's Long Term Public Transport Plan, May 2010
pro_5_2	Heaps of people would be tempted by free transport.	Heaps of people would be tempted by free transport. If free public transport was offered to everyone, of course they would use it. Yes, some people may stick to their cars, but the majority would think it was a great idea. If you had the choice of paying thousands each year to run a car, or to get on a train every morning for free, what would you choose?
pro_5_3	A lot of people would already be using it if it didn't cost so much.	A lot of people would already be using it if it didn't cost so much. For a lot of people, the only reason they don't catch public transport is because it costs too much. If it was free, they'd definitely start using it.
con_5_1	Many people dislike public transport and still would not use it.	Many people dislike public transport and still would not use it. Many people will stick to their cars, and some would even stop using public transport, because with it being free, so many people will use it, it would become a mess and be way too crowded.
