title	Education vouchers
question	Are education vouchers good public policy?
headline_1	Choice: Do vouchers introduce beneficial choice to education?
pro_1_1	Vouchers honor right of parents/students to choose school	 Vouchers honor right of parents/students to choose school Parents and students have a right to choose what school they will attend. Forcing a child to attend a public school, even if it is not a healthy and productive environment for them, is wrong. Vouchers afford children and their parents are right to choose which school best fits their needs and desires. It affords greater decision-making power and freedom to citizens, instead of the state, on a matter of tremendous importance to their lives and futures. This is righteous in principle.
pro_1_2	Vouchers improve choice/access despite private school right to deny	 Vouchers improve choice/access despite private school right to deny It is true that private schools can deny students they believe to be unqualified. Nevertheless, vouchers generally improve student and parent choice and access to private schools by making it more affordable. Vouchers need not make student access 100% perfect. It is enough that it simply improves choice and access.
pro_1_3	By giving parents a choice, vouchers engage parents more.	By giving parents a choice, vouchers engage parents more. Parents who have greater choice are more likely to be involved in their children's schooling. Vouchers demand that a parent choose and control paying for the education of their children, thus initiating their involvement in their child's education. 
pro_1_4	Students/parents with vouchers make better choices than bureaucrats.	Students/parents with vouchers make better choices than bureaucrats. The voucher program in New Zealand benefited students in both the private and public schools by putting funding in the hands of students and parents instead of bureaucrats. Parents will almost always make a better decision in choosing a school. The success of education vouchers in New Zealand is a good example of what it can achieve elsewhere in the world.
pro_1_5	New Zealand's education vouchers worked	New Zealand's education vouchers worked.
con_1_1	Vouchers lack choice as private schools can exclude students	 Vouchers lack choice as private schools can exclude students Vouchers do not provide all public school students with a choice to attend private schools. Private schools can, inherently, deny applicants entry. The main problem with this is that many of the most needy disadvantaged groups are already being turned away by private schools, so education vouchers may not provide them with any greater choice or access to private schools. Public schools are open to all students, and this is why the disadvantaged should be helped through the public school system.
con_1_2	Students choice of public schools can be improved without vouchers.	Students choice of public schools can be improved without vouchers. The argument for vouchers relies on the premise that there is not enough choice in the public school system. This may be true. But, it is possible to have enhance choice for students/parents between public schools without vouchers. By simply allowing some or all students to attend public schools outside of their schooling district, for example, choice can be enhanced. By not considering these simple mechanisms for choice within the public school system, vouchers overshoot. 
con_1_3	Poor often can't afford private schools, even with vouchers	 Poor often can't afford private schools, even with vouchers Given the limited budget for schools, a voucher system weakens public schools while at the same time not necessarily providing enough money for people to attend private schools. Some private elementary and high schools are nearly $20,000 - $30,000 per year. Most voucher programs are in the range of $5,000 to $15,000. Many disadvantaged students and parents will not be able to pay the difference - ranging from $25,000 to $5,000. This means vouchers do not necessarily offer the disadvantaged the opportunity and choice to attend expensive private schools. 
headline_2	Competition: Is the competition introduced by vouchers a good thing?
pro_2_1	Competition via vouchers makes schools more efficient/effective	 Competition via vouchers makes schools more efficient/effective Nobel Prize winning economist Milton Friedman argued for the modern concept of vouchers in the 1950s, stating that competition would improve schools and cost efficiency. They introduce competition by giving parents and students the choice to leave bad schools in favor of better schools. This compares to the far less competitive status quo situation in which students are locked into schools in their district. The argument goes that competition forces schools to act more resourcefully, creatively, and efficiently as a means of enhancing their competitiveness relative to other schools. If they do not do this, they will be less competitive, lose attendance and tuition, lose quality students and teachers, and possibly be forced to close. In short, vouchers introduce competition, which provides an incentive to increase efficiency and effectiveness.
pro_2_2	Education vouchers force schools to hire competitive teachers.	Education vouchers force schools to hire competitive teachers. Schools that face choice-based incentives must increase the quality of the education they provide, which causes them to seek and keep better teachers and hold bad teachers to account. If they do not do this, they will lose students and tuition, and may be forced to close. Vouchers, therefore, provide an incentive for schools to increase the quality of the education they offer, which improves student achievement and success, and generally improves the long-term economic vibrancy of a nation.
con_2_1	Cooperation, not competition, is best way to improve schools.	Cooperation, not competition, is best way to improve schools. Cooperation between schools, city and local officials, communities, and educational groups is the best way to improve schools. It ensures that information and resources are shared and that everyone works together to improve the educational system collectively. Competition is much the opposite. It ensures that school administrators do not share information that may undermine their "competitiveness" and distracts attention away from the most important thing - how to best educate children - and focuses more on how to out-compete other schools. When combined with testing regimes (such as exists in No Child Left Behind), it often creates a perverse obsession with "teaching to the test" as a means of producing a higher average test score compared to other schools. This may have no relation to the quality of an education.
con_2_2	Vouchers damage public schools that can't compete with private schools.	Vouchers damage public schools that can't compete with private schools. Public schools are unlikely to be able to respond to increased competitive pressure generated by vouchers.[2] This is not the fault of public schools - they are not designed to "compete". Public schools are designed to provide an education that reflects the educational priorities of a society; this is not something that competition can necessarily foster. Private schools often have a very different mission and are designed to compete, in some case purely for profit. It is wrong to attempt to mix non-competitive public schools and competitive private schools in a competitive voucher system. Obviously, public schools will lose, undermining the common values driving the public education system. 
headline_3	Economics: Are education vouchers economical, efficient?
pro_3_1	Market-based education vouchers help supply demand.	Market-based education vouchers help supply demand. Under a student voucher system, where demand exists for education from the parents that would rather attend a different school, entrepreneurs are free to open and invest in new schools to accommodate demand. Supply demand, in this sense, is generally a good thing in its own right. People that want something are happier if someone is allowed to fulfill their desires. But this is only possible under a student voucher system, where students can move freely between schools and schools are free to accommodate this fluid demand.
pro_3_2	Vouchers take advantage of more efficient private schools.	Vouchers take advantage of more efficient private schools. State-run schools are more expensive per head than private equivalents. Large government-run bureaucracies are notoriously inefficient. Even without voucher schemes many private schools currently charge less per head than the funding state schools receive - evidence that education can be provided more efficiently by the private sector.[3]  
con_3_1	Public schools are a public good; should not be subjected to market.	Public schools are a public good; should not be subjected to market. Education does not fit well into a fungible supply/demand system. The main reason is that the supply of schools cannot adjust quickly to year-to-year changes in demand. Schools cannot be built overnight or within even a single year. And, schools cannot rapidly adjust their budgets because demand rises and falls dramatically from one year to the next, via school vouchers. Schools are, rather, long-term investments for long-term demographic trends, with the objective of supplying the public with a stable public good - education. This stable supply of education should not be subjected to the whims of shifts in year-to-year demand. 
con_3_2	Profit motive of private schools is costly, undermining vouchers.	Profit motive of private schools is costly, undermining vouchers. Private sector schools require extra funds as the profit motive has to be met. They are, therefore, not necessarily cheaper for the taxpayer. Vouchers that go toward private schools may, therefore, simply go toward lining the pockets of the investors of private schools. This is neither a fair nor an efficient use of taxpayer money.
headline_4	Inequality: Do vouchers help fight economic, ethnic educational inequality?
pro_4_1	Vouchers give poor a choice of schools, lower inequality	 Vouchers give poor a choice of schools, lower inequality School vouchers allow for greater economic diversity by offering lower income students opportunities to attend previously unaffordable private schools. School voucher proponent and Nobel Prize winning economist Milton Friedman observed that the poor have an incentive to support school choice, as their children attend substandard schools, and would thus benefit most from alternative schools and access to private schools. In turn, increasing the poor's access to better schools helps increase their chances of success and decreases inequality.
pro_4_2	Education vouchers improve minority academic achievement.	Education vouchers improve minority academic achievement. There may be small achievement gains in mathematics for the African-American and Hispanic children who use vouchers. The main reason is that it increases access to better schools and better educations, which are a key factor in improving academic achievement.
pro_4_3	Voucher combat cultural genocide occurring in public schools.	Voucher combat cultural genocide occurring in public schools. Some proponents of school vouchers, including the Sutherland Institute and many supporters of the Utah voucher effort, see it as a remedy for historic cultural genocide committed against demographic minorities by compulsory public schools. This is because public school standards and tests are established, usually, by non-minorities that are insensitive to the different cultures of minorities. They insensitivities ultimately undermine these minority cultures, sometimes intentionally, in a form of "cultural genocide". Vouchers offer choices and alternatives that counter the monopoly of public school standard-bearers and those committing "cultural genocide".
pro_4_4	Vouchers counter social division between public/private schools.	Vouchers counter social division between public/private schools. The division between private and public schools is very prominent in society, based largely on the socio-economic ability of parents. Vouchers help combat this by providing disadvantaged groups with the opportunity to attend private schools.[4]
con_4_1	Even with vouchers, private schools can still exclude certain groups.	Even with vouchers, private schools can still exclude certain groups. Because private schools can exclude students, even ones with vouchers, there is a tendency for them to exclude certain socio-economic, ethnic, or disabled groups. Vouchers do not help prevent such exclusion and discrimination.  
con_4_2	Education vouchers worsen economic and ethnic divisions	 Education vouchers worsen economic and ethnic divisions "The Case Against Vouchers". National Education Association: "A pure voucher system would only encourage economic, racial, ethnic, and religious stratification in our society. America's success has been built on our ability to unify our diverse populations." The general logic for this is that vouchers would often be used by parents and students to attend schools with like-minded students, whether black, hispanic, catholic, or disabled. They, therefore, allow for the separation of groups, and the problems of misunderstanding and division that follow as a result.
con_4_3	Vouchers worsen gap between private and public schools	 Vouchers worsen gap between private and public schools "The Case Against Vouchers". National Education Association - "Americans want consistent standards for students. Where vouchers are in place -- Milwaukee, Cleveland, and Florida -- a two-tiered system has been set up that holds students in public and private schools to different standards." 
con_4_4	School vouchers mostly benefit the affluent	 School vouchers mostly benefit the affluent A voucher system that offers choice to parents is used most by affluent parents that are already engaged in the education of their students and whom would prefer that their child leave a failing school. Poor and disadvantaged parents are less likely to take advantage of vouchers. The result is that affluent students go to better schools, while poor and disadvantaged students generally stay in underperforming schools. Instead of helping the disadvantaged, vouchers actually end up leaving them behind.[5]
con_4_5	Voucher funding often goes to those that can afford private schools.	Voucher funding often goes to those that can afford private schools. Voucher are like a discount coupon for those who can already afford the full cost of a private school education. According to the National Conference of State Legislatures, 76% of the money handed out for Arizona’s voucher program has gone to children already in private schools.[6]
headline_5	Educational achievement: Do vouchers help improve educational achievement?
pro_5_1	Voucher competition spurs schools to improve academic achievement	 Voucher competition spurs schools to improve academic achievement Voucher competition between public school districts spurs public schools to improve student outcomes. In Chile, attending a private school subsidized by vouchers is associated with increased standardized test scores. 
pro_5_2	Competitive school voucher programs help increase graduation rates.	Competitive school voucher programs help increase graduation rates. Children that op-out of schools that are not serving them well are more likely to graduate than those who remain at schools that are failing them.[7] In Columbia, for example, school voucher programs were reported to have increased secondary school completion rates by 15-20%. [8]
con_5_1	Little evidence that vouchers improve academic achievement.	Little evidence that vouchers improve academic achievement. In Chicago, there is little evidence that attending school choice programs provides any benefit on a wide variety of traditional academic measures, including standardized test scores, attendance rates, course-taking, and credit accumulation. In the Netherlands, where parents are free to choose the school for their children, higher competition is associated with lower student achievement in upper secondary education. 
headline_6	Schools: Do student vouchers improve the quality of schools?
pro_6_1	Vouchers foster competition that forces schools to improve themselves.	Vouchers foster competition that forces schools to improve themselves. Competition through free market capitalism would increase the quality of education for both private and public education sectors as it has for higher education with publicly funded state universities directly competing against private universities. Also, similar competition has helped in manufacturing, energy, transportation, and parcel postal (UPS, FedEx vs. USPS) sectors of government that have been socialized and later opened up to free market competition.
pro_6_2	Vouchers allows for creative destruction of bad schools.	Vouchers allows for creative destruction of bad schools. Under a voucher system, successful schools would attract students, while bad schools would be forced to reform or close. 
pro_6_3	Education vouchers allow students to leave failing schools.	Education vouchers allow students to leave failing schools. Many state schools are failing and a voucher system provides an escape valve for students that would otherwise be locked into unfortunate circumstances. Children are locked into bad schools, particularly in inner-city and under-privileged areas. Parents must be given the opportunity to escape from bad state education systems if educational standards are to improve.[9]  
pro_6_4	Universities succeed because they are more like voucher system.	Universities succeed because they are more like voucher system. The key difference between a k-12 and a University system is that the U.S. University system receives a substantial portion of its funding from students and subsidies to students in the form of scholarships, government grants, and subsidized loans. This is argued to be conceptually equivalent to school vouchers because the money is provided ultimately to the student and in such a way that the student's ability to choose between schools is maintained. Because choice is maintained, universities must compete harder to attract students, which many proponents argue is the key ingredient in the relative success of the Universities system over the K-12 system. Thus, some argue that a similar competition-inducing approach should be taken with the K-12 system through school vouchers.[10]  
pro_6_5	Student voucher programs help develop healthy school cultures.	Student voucher programs help develop healthy school cultures. Vouchers allow individual school cultures to develop, enabling teachers to choose schools that promote teaching approaches that match their teaching styles, and enable students/parents to choose schools that match the students learning styles and abilities. 
pro_6_6	Vouchers promote innovation and specialisation.	Vouchers promote innovation and specialisation. As schools work to attract particular kinds of pupils, variety and choice within the education system is increased.[11]  
con_6_1	School vouchers leave worst schools and students behind	 School vouchers leave worst schools and students behind Some pupils will always end up stuck in dying, under-funded schools because over-subscribed schools cannot expand fast enough. Vouchers worsen this problem by subjecting these schools to competition, which they will fail against. Such schools and the students that have no choice to attend these schools - because there is no space in other schools or for other reasons - will simply lose out more.
con_6_2	Vouchers drain talent from public schools, undermining competitiveness.	Vouchers drain talent from public schools, undermining competitiveness. Some economist critics point to the problem of "cream skimming," a variety of adverse selection in the educational market. With a greater pool of applicants, the private schools could be more selective over which students to admit, excluding those who do not belong to a preferred group (for instance, religion or ethnicity), those with disabilities such as autism or multiple sclerosis, and those with disciplinary problems. By law, the public schools must accept any student. So that they would presumably end up with all students whom the private schools turn away for such reasons. This would likely further undermine the reputation and competitiveness of the public schools, leading to a vicious circle that tends toward the total abolition of the public schools and perhaps the end of universal education.
con_6_3	School vouchers erode national educational standards.	School vouchers erode national educational standards. Education vouchers erode educational standards by allowing public funding to go to private programs that may not reflect strong national educational standards. School vouchers also decentralize control over schools, creating a scattering of programs, instead of a core educational standard based on our highest educational ideals. 
con_6_4	Private education, with vouchers, is no better than public education.	Private education, with vouchers, is no better than public education. One reason given for being allowed to choose private schools is the belief that private schools offer better education – a belief disputed by the United States Department of Education in their 2006 study of the public education they oversee. There is no conclusive evidence that private schools necessarily produce better test results or more successful human beings.
con_6_5	Public schools are being improved without vouchers	 Public schools are being improved without vouchers "The Case Against Vouchers". National Education Association: "NEA and its affiliates support direct efforts to improve public schools. There is no need to set up new threats to schools for not performing. What is needed is help for the students, teachers, and schools who are struggling."
headline_7	Privatization: Is education a private or public good? Is privatization beneficial?
pro_7_1	Privatization of public schools through vouchers is a good thing.	Privatization of public schools through vouchers is a good thing. The Liberty and Democracy Party of Australia supports vouchers as a stepping-stone to abolishing public schools. LDP spokesman Shem Bennett said, "Initially some public schools would remain. But under the LDP’s plan, schools would slowly privatise and diversify as there’d be no need for government ownership."[12] This is a good thing because privatized schools are more efficient and cost-effective, delivering a higher quality education product at lower costs. An additional reason is that privatized schools are more agile in meeting the demands of local community members. Public schools, driven by national standards, are not as reflective of the educational preferences of local communities.
con_7_1	Vouchers forget that education is a public good, not a private good.	Vouchers forget that education is a public good, not a private good. The argument that education is a private good is based on the failure to differentiate education from public education. Education refers merely to the teaching of individual students for their own benefit. Public education refers to the goal of educating the entire public for their own benefit and the benefit of society as a whole. Looked at from this point of view, public education is a public good. This interpretation is arrived at by looking at society as a whole as benefiting from the education (or suffering from the lack of education) of its citizens.
con_7_2	Market-based voucher system clashes with right to education.	Market-based voucher system clashes with right to education. Under a 'market' system there is no guarantee that school places will be provided in isolated areas where there are not enough pupils to justify private investment or that schools will accept disabled pupils, whose education may require more funds than the voucher provides.[13] 
headline_8	Jobs: Do vouchers help/harm teacher jobs?
pro_8_1	Public school job loss from vouchers will be offset in private schools.	Public school job loss from vouchers will be offset in private schools. Any loss of supply and demand for public institutions would be offset and equalized by the increased demand for private institutions. For example, if the demand for private schools increased, they would need to hire more teachers and staff to compensate for their increased growth, so any jobs lost from the public sector would be offset by jobs gained in the private sector.
con_8_1	Student vouchers will cost many public school teachers their jobs.	Student vouchers will cost many public school teachers their jobs. Student vouchers cost public teachers their jobs as students leave public schools for private schools with their vouchers. 
headline_9	Accountability: Do education vouchers enable strong accountability and standards?
pro_9_1	Vouchers stop parents paying twice for public and private schools.	Vouchers stop parents paying twice for public and private schools. Under non-voucher education systems, citizens that currently pay for private schooling are still charged taxes that are used to fund public schools. Their cost for education is, therefore, two-fold as they are funding both public and private schools simultaneously. Vouchers are designed to provide citizens freedom to spend their tax money as they choose for the type of school they want for their children, avoiding such double taxation.
pro_9_2	Vouchers increase local accountability over central control.	Vouchers increase local accountability over central control. Education vouchers localize accountability as opposed to relying on central government standards. This means that the education of children is controlled more by the desires of a community - as it should be - and less by the whims of a central government.
pro_9_3	Vouchers introduce competition without over-regulating public schools	 Vouchers introduce competition without over-regulating public schools Incentives to improve schools can be introduced without drammatically changing the whole system of publicly run education. Generally, it keeps everything the same while adding choice, and a sort of free-market competitive mentality. In this mentality, very little regulations are introduced that would weigh down the educational system. Independence and flexibility is maintained.[14] Furthermore, the public nature of public schools is maintained, with appropriate national standards, but simply with the beneficial introduction of competition into the system through vouchers.
con_9_1	Student vouchers reduce democratic accountability in education.	Student vouchers reduce democratic accountability in education. Another argument against the implementation of a school voucher system is its lack of accountability to the taxpayer. In many states, members of a community's board of education are elected by voters. Similarly, a school budget faces a referendum. Meetings of the Board of Education must be announced in advance, and members of the public are permitted to voice their concerns directly to board members. Although vouchers may be used in private and religious schools, taxpayers are not able to vote on budgetary issues, elect members of the board or even attend board meetings. Opponents of vouchers assert that this disenfranchisement amounts to taxation without representation.  
con_9_2	School vouchers erode national educational standards.	School vouchers erode national educational standards. Education vouchers erode educational standards by allowing public funding to go to private programs that may not reflect strong national educational standards. School vouchers also decentralize control over schools, creating a scattering of programs, instead of a core educational standard based on our highest educational ideals. It is generally important that schools be held accountable to a single national standard, but education vouchers have the potential to undermine such a standard and the ability to hold schools to account on a national scale. 
headline_10	Religion: Do vouchers rightly/wrongly support religious schools?
pro_10_1	Vouchers comply with separation of church and state	 Vouchers comply with separation of church and state The main argument here is that vouchers are only individual aid, giving individuals the choice to go to a religious school, but of course not mandating that they do so. Vouchers, therefore, can only indirectly support religious schools, and so should not be as a violation of the Establishment clause and the separation of church and state. 
pro_10_2	Vouchers for religious schools increase competition across system.	Vouchers for religious schools increase competition across system. The inclusion in 1998 of religious private schools in the Milwaukee voucher program led to more than a three-fold increase in the number of private schools and almost a four-fold increase in the number of choice students, and to a further improvement of the public schools.
con_10_1	Vouchers for religious schools violates church/state separation	 Vouchers for religious schools violates church/state separation Education is used to inculcate values that the society believes in and to promote social and civic awareness. Religious schools promoting anti-female policies, for example, should not be receiving taxpayer funding in the form of vouchers. This violates the constitutional separation of church and state. State funds cannot be separated from state control. It matters not whether the state is not directly making the choice to fund religious schools. Taxpayer funds should not be allowed to be directed toward religious schools.[15]
