title	No Child Left Behind Act
question	Is the No Child Left Behind education law in America a good policy and worth continuing?
headline_1	Student measurement: Are standardized tests a good measure of student learning?
pro_1_1	No Child Left Behind offers valuable measure of student progress	 No Child Left Behind offers valuable measure of student progress No Child Left Behind allows teachers to judge the effectiveness or ineffectiveness of their methods in their classes and with individual students. English Teacher Stephanie Butler said, for instance, "Assessment drives instruction. If I don't know the weaknesses of my students, how can I know how to best help them? [...] I think the statistics need to drive remedies."[1]
pro_1_2	Standardized testing sets useful baseline achievement standards.	Standardized testing sets useful baseline achievement standards. It is important that a nation has a general frame of reference on where students should, on average, be at various stages in their educational development. Standardized testing helps do this by setting a baseline level of achievement at each grade. While some students may perform above or below this standard, the important thing is judging the general educational trends across American society, so that we can help guide our national educational system onto a globally competitive path.
con_1_1	Standardized tests poorly measure real student learning	 Standardized tests poorly measure real student learning Standardized testing often tests only a very limited range of skills rather than the broad range of skills we would hope our educational system is teaching. Standardized testing focuses largely on memorization, speed of recall, and critical thinking. Yet, a full education entails much more, including creativity, emotional insight, composure and dignity, physical health and an understanding of nutrition, and many other basic human values. NCLB, therefore, does not measure the most important factors in a student's education and future success and happiness. It is, therefore, useless as a measure of a student and school's performance.
con_1_2	NCLB testing wrongly assumes all children are the same.	NCLB testing wrongly assumes all children are the same. Any system of standardized testing (in order to pass a class) assumes that all students progress at the same rate. But this is not the case. Talented students and un-talented students should not be measured by the same standardized test.
con_1_3	NCLF does not track progress of individual students	 NCLF does not track progress of individual students "Commentary: No Child Left Behind needs revision". McClatchy. December 11, 2008 - "schools should be judged on whether each child progresses from one year to the next, which is called a 'growth model.' It asks, did the child's knowledge and skills grow at least one year's worth? Are children who are behind getting enough attention to help them catch up? Those are the important questions, not whether this third grade scores better than the previous year's third-grade class [under no child left behind]."
headline_2	Learning: Does it lead to improved learning in its broadest sense?
pro_2_1	NCLB has succeeded in improving test scores	 NCLB has succeeded in improving test scores (NAEP) The Department of Education points to National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) results, released in July 2005, showing improved student achievement in reading and math resulting from No Child Left Behind.[2]
pro_2_2	Standardized tests ensures students learn essential information.	Standardized tests ensures students learn essential information. There is some information in the world that is essential to know as a means of communicating effectively and analytically with other individuals in society, whether as a citizen or in the marketplace. Standardized tests help ensure that all students learn this important information. It is true that this information can be cut-and-dry and perhaps even boring, including history, literacy (reading comprehension), and math. Yet, it is, nevertheless, essential, so testing for it and ensuring students know the information is socially and educationally valuable. Yet, it is also true, that this essential information does not constitute all the information that a community may believe their children should know.
pro_2_3	Standardized test info is more essential than music and arts.	Standardized test info is more essential than music and arts. While music and arts are important, in a globally competitive marketplace they are less important than more essential historical information, reading-comprehension, and math-skills.
pro_2_4	NCLB tests what is testable; art and music is not testable.	NCLB tests what is testable; art and music is not testable. While music, art, culture, and physical education are important, they are not testable. You can only create a standardized test around information that is common and fairly objective. No Child Left Behind does this, focusing on history, math, and reading comprehension. It cannot be blamed for not testing arts and music. These subjects are not testable. Schools should, however, teach them, and not merely focus on teaching to the NCLB test.
pro_2_5	Schools should teach test-information as well as arts etc	 Schools should teach test-information as well as arts etc "Defending 'No Child Left Behind'". Christian Science Monitor. August 29, 2005 - "Teaching to the test. Critics often object that NCLB invites teaching only to the test. But parents can counter this, by pressuring schools to broaden out."
pro_2_6	Standards enables students to integrate well into new schools.	Standards enables students to integrate well into new schools. The establishment of statewide standards, instead of city or neighborhood curricula, also benefits students who move between neighboring communities by increasing the odds that lessons learned in one school will generally line up sensibly with lessons taught at a new school for a student. Such educational continuity is valuable.
pro_2_7	NCLB encountered some problems due to low funding	 NCLB encountered some problems due to low funding No Child Left Behind had some significant problems when it was first implemented under the Bush administration. But this had much more to do with insufficient funding than with any inadequacies of the program itself. Barack Obama recognized as much in the following remark: "I'll tell you what's wrong with No Child Left Behind. Forcing our teachers, our principals and our schools to accomplish all of this without the resources they need is wrong. Promising high-quality teachers in every classroom and then leaving the support and the pay for those teachers behind is wrong. Labeling a school and its students as failures one day and then throwing your hands up and walking away from them the next is wrong. [...] We must fix the failures of No Child Left Behind. We must provide the funding we were promised, give our states the resources they need and finally meet our commitment to special education."[3]
con_2_1	No Child Left Behind motivates unfortunate teaching to the test	 No Child Left Behind motivates unfortunate "teaching to the test": The focus on standardized testing (all students in a state take the same test under the same conditions) as the means of assessment encourages teachers to teach a narrow subset of skills that will increase test performance rather than focus on deeper understanding and life lessons that can be applied in the marketplace, real life, and to citizenship and democracy generally. Because teachers and schools may be punished if they fail to live up to standardized test score goals, they often have a perverse incentive to focus almost entirely on teaching to the test, especially where a school is at risk of being designated as "failing".
con_2_2	No Child Left Behind over-emphasizes math and reading	 No Child Left Behind over-emphasizes math and reading: Robert Lynch. "No Child Left Behind Act wrongly left the arts behind". The Hill. March 12, 2007 - "[Congress] should correct the legislation’s unintended consequences, which include reducing the amount of arts education in our nation’s schools. [...] it also requires schools to report student achievement test results for only two subjects: reading and math. With the emphasis on just those two, the arts have suffered. [...] A recent national study of the Act’s impact by the Council on Education Policy reveals that a majority of school leaders saw gains in achievement, but 71 percent reported having reduced instructional time in at least one other subject to make more time for reading and math. Since the passage of NCLB, 22 percent of elementary school leaders surveyed reported a decline in their art and music instruction."
con_2_3	No Child Left Behind does not inspire a love of learning.	No Child Left Behind does not inspire a love of learning. The most important element in education is that students develop a love of learning, so that they seek to learn on their own, outside of school. No Child Left Behind, however, makes learning such a rigid process that it does not inspire such a love of learning, failing the most important test of a good educational system.
con_2_4	NCLB raises standards and testing without improving education	 NCLB raises standards and testing without improving education  Sandra Nichols. "When NCLB Standards Meet Reality". April 26, 2003 - "...having high standards is currently thought to be some kind of magic bullet. Certainly nobody wants low standards. However, merely raising the bar does not make a pole-vaulter able to jump higher."
con_2_5	No-Child-Left-Behind detracts from the education of the gifted	 No-Child-Left-Behind detracts from the education of the gifted. When the focus of the educational system and teachers is on the standardized average, this detracts from the education of those at the low and high end of educational achievement. The gifted will not be taught to their full potential as a result. This has consequences not simply for these students, but for society as a whole, which depends disproportionately on the cultivation of the best and brightest into tomorrow's leaders.
con_2_6	NCLB gets teachers to over-focus on those just below passing	NCLB gets teachers to over-focus on those just below passing Because No Child Left Behind makes passing tests such a central priority, teachers don't have much of an incentive to spend time helping those that are already likely to pass nor those that are highly unlikely to pass (it would be wasted energy). The greatest bang-for-the-buck for teachers under threat from NCLB penalties is to focus on students that are just below the passing grade. This is unfortunate because every child should be given equal attention to grow regardless of their abilities.
con_2_7	No Child Left Behind increases dropout rates.	No Child Left Behind increases dropout rates. NCLB creates a perverse incentive for schools to encourage poor-performing students to dropout and leave (because it may be necessary for a school to avoid being labeled "failing"). It also creates an environment in which some students may become discouraged by their continually poor performance on tests, and in which "teaching to the test" provides too little stimulation to other important interests that a student may have, such as music.
headline_3	Accountability: Does NCLB make teachers and schools more accountable?
pro_3_1	NCLB testing helps reveal and change failing teaching methods.	NCLB testing helps reveal and change failing teaching methods. The focus of testing is to provide a clear indication teaching methods that are working and ones that are not. No Child Left Behind allows this, making it possible for teachers to adjust their methods accordingly.
pro_3_2	No Child Left Behind fosters accountability in public schools	 No Child Left Behind fosters accountability in public schools Claudia Wallis, Sonja Steptoe. "How to Fix No Child Left Behind". Time. May 24, 2007 - "NCLB proponents and critics alike agree that the law's greatest accomplishment has been shinning an unforgiving light on such languishing schools and demanding that they do better."
pro_3_3	NCLB has safeguards for schools that are failing despite proficiency.	NCLB has safeguards for schools that are failing despite proficiency. Gives school districts the opportunity to demonstrate proficiency, even for subgroups that do not meet State Minimum Achievement standards, through a process called "safe harbor," a precursor to growth-based or value-added assessments.
pro_3_4	No Child Left Behind draws, keeps, motivates good teachers	 No Child Left Behind draws, keeps, motivates good teachers "Fact Sheet on the Major Provisions of the Conference Report to H.R. 1, the No Child Left Behind Act". United States Department of Education - "Strengthening Teacher Quality [...] H.R. 1 asks states to put a highly-qualified teacher in every public school classroom by 2005. The bill also makes it easier for local schools to recruit and retain excellent teachers. [...] H.R. 1 will consolidate smaller programs within the US Department of Education. The bill also creates a new Teacher Quality Program that allows greater flexibility for local school districts. [...] In addition to specific funds for teacher quality, H.R. 1 will also give local schools new freedom to make spending decisions with up to 50 percent of the non-Title I federal funds they receive. With this new freedom, a local school district can use additional funds for hiring new teachers, increasing teacher pay, improving teacher training and development or other uses."
con_3_1	NCLB standardized tests are a poor measure of school performance	 NCLB standardized tests are a poor measure of school performance Walter Haney. "Evidence on Education under NCLB (and How Florida Boosted NAEP Scores and Reduced the Race Gap". September 8, 2006 - "results on NAEP are dubious bases for reaching summary judgments regarding school quality."
con_3_2	No Child Left Behind reveal nothing new about school performance	 No Child Left Behind reveal nothing new about school performance Alfie Kohn. "NCLB: 'Too Destructive To Salvage'". Common Dreams. May 31, 2007 - "This law is not about discovering which schools need help; we already know."
con_3_3	Teachers are not necessarily to blame for poor student performance.	Teachers are not necessarily to blame for poor student performance. Critics of the NCLB requirement for "one high, challenging standard" claim that some students are simply unable to perform at the level for their age, no matter how good the teacher is.EdAccountability.org While statewide standards reduce the educational inequality between privileged and underprivileged districts in a state, they still impose a "one size fits all" standard on individual students. Particularly in states with high standards, schools can be punished for not being able to dramatically raise the achievement of a student who has below-average capabilities.
con_3_4	No Child Left Behind does nothing to improve teachers	 No Child Left Behind does nothing to improve teachers Alfie Kohn. "NCLB: 'Too Destructive To Salvage'". Common Dreams. May 31, 2007 - "according to a recent 50-state survey by Teachers Network, a non-profit education organization, exactly 3% of teachers think NCLB helps them to teach more effectively. No wonder 129 education and civil rights organizations have endorsed a letter to Congress deploring the law's overemphasis on standardized testing and punitive sanctions. No wonder 30,000 people (so far) have signed a petition at educatorroundtable.org calling the law 'too destructive to salvage.'"
con_3_5	NCLB damages teacher morale, future of profession	 NCLB damages teacher morale, future of profession Charles Murray. "Acid Tests". Wall Street Journal. July 25, 2006 - "It pushes classrooms toward relentless drilling, not something that inspires able people to become teachers or makes children eager to learn."
con_3_6	NCLB sets overly restrictive qualifications for teaching.	NCLB sets overly restrictive qualifications for teaching. No Child Left Behind sets highly restrictive qualifications for teaching in schools. This often means that some schools cannot get enough teachers or that good teachers that do not meet NCLB qualifications cannot continue to teach.
con_3_7	NCLB counter-productively punishes teachers/schools	 NCLB counter-productively punishes teachers/schools Punishing teachers for the poor performance of students fails to address the main issue; how to better or differently instruct students. Teachers already have the best interests of their students at heart. Punishing them wrongly assumes that this is not the case, or that teachers cannot simply recognize the need to improve their methods if things are not going well.
con_3_8	NCLB ridgedly punishes schools that are progressing, albeit slowly	 NCLB ridgedly punishes schools that are progressing, albeit slowly Many schools are doing a great job and progressing, but are not progressing at the unreasonable pace set by NCLB. They are subsequently punished, despite the fact that they are doing good work.
con_3_9	Teachers want to be held accountable, just not to tests.	Teachers want to be held accountable, just not to tests. While accountability is often considered important among teachers, it is important to consider what teachers are being held accountable for. Many teachers feel they should be held accountable for a more holistic teaching approach, opposed to the kind of test-centric teaching NCLB requires. Teachers want to be accountable for actually educating their students, not merely teaching them how to take a test.
con_3_10	NCLB causes the retention of students in grades to avoid tests.	NCLB causes the retention of students in grades to avoid tests. Because schools and teachers are hyper-sensitive about passing students under NCLB testing, a perverse incentive is created to hold back underperforming students that should pass on to a higher grade simply to avoid the risk that they will take and fail a test.
con_3_11	NCLB causes schools to turn-away most needy students.	NCLB causes schools to turn-away most needy students. No Child Left Behind creates a perverse incentive for schools to deny entry to underperforming students as a means of decreasing the chances that the school will be labeled "failing" and sanctioned as a consequence. This can leave underperforming students with no place to go to school and with no future.
con_3_12	NCLB wrongly cuts funding to the most needy, under-performing schools.	NCLB wrongly cuts funding to the most needy, under-performing schools. Instead of helping lift-up underperforming schools, No Child Left Behind cuts resources to these schools as a means of punishment, counter-productively ensuring the continued failure of these schools.
con_3_13	NCLB demands too much from schools with worst students, least funding.	NCLB demands too much from schools with worst students, least funding. No Child Left Behind demands the most improvement from the schools with the least funding and the worst students. This is simply unreasonable.
headline_4	Teacher cheating: Can NCLB avoid teachers cheating on tests?
pro_4_1	Most teachers are honest and will not cheat the system under NCLB.	Most teachers are honest and will not cheat the system under NCLB. Teachers will probably not cheat the system, simply out of respect for themselves, their profession, and their students. The system should not, therefore, cave to a minority of teachers that decide to violate the rules. Instead, measures should be taken to ensure that teachers do not cheat and that cheating teachers are caught.
con_4_1	No Child Left Behind motivates teachers to cheat	 No Child Left Behind motivates teachers to cheat. When teacher accountability is based on test scores, teachers are often motivated to cheat, by modifying student standardized tests so that more pass. This does not help the students and teachers should not be put in this position.
headline_5	Special-ed: Does NCLB do enough for special-ed children?
pro_5_1	NCLB ensures disabled students are not left behind	 NCLB ensures disabled students are not left behind Bill Byrne. "No Child Left Behind — Really? Why I like this law." - "The fact is that in many, many public schools, kids with disabilities are not learning to read and do math — while the vast majority of them can master these skills with proper instruction. [...] No Child Left Behind will short-circuit all of the excuses and explanations. School systems that do a good job with children with disabilities will show their progress, and those that fail to do a good job will have their ineffectiveness exposed. Then parents and voters can make informed decisions about how to get the underachievers on track."
pro_5_2	NCLB flexibly allows disabled to take separate exams	 NCLB flexibly allows disabled to take separate exams
con_5_1	No Child Left Behind subjects disabled to same test standards.	No Child Left Behind subjects disabled to same test standards. Because No Child Left Behind requires that 100% of students in a school are able to pass, disabled and special-ed students are often expected to pass the same exams as other students. Because many of these students simply cannot pass the same tests, disabled students are set up to fail, and schools with disabled students are set up to fail as well.
headline_6	School choice: Does NCLB offer better choice of schools to students and parents?
pro_6_1	No Child Left Behind offers choice to leave failing schools	 No Child Left Behind offers choice to leave failing schools If a school fails to meet AYP targets two or more years running, the school must offer eligible children the chance to transfer to higher-performing local schools, receive free tutoring, or attend after-school programs.
pro_6_2	No Child Left Behind encourages parents to engage more actively	 No Child Left Behind encourages parents to engage more actively No Child Left Behind establishes the foundation for schools and school districts to significantly enhance parental involvement and improve administration through the use of the assessment data to drive decisions on instruction, curriculum and business practices. It provides information for parents by requiring states and school districts to give parents detailed report cards on schools and districts explaining the school's AYP performance. It notifies parents of schools that do not meet standards, giving them a way to weigh alternative school options. Schools must also inform parents when their child is being taught by a teacher or para-professional who does not meet "highly qualified" requirements.
con_6_1	School choice in NCLB will make bad schools worse.	School choice in NCLB will make bad schools worse. When students and parents have the choice to leave bad schools, they will often choose to do so. This will lower the talent pool in bad schools, making them into simply the backwaters for under-performing and mischievous students, which will further undermine these schools and student performance in a vicious cycle.
con_6_2	Good not failing students students will leave under NCLB.	Good not "failing" students students will leave under NCLB. No Child Left Behind is intended to provide resources to students that are "failing" to leave and be transported to other schools, where they may be more successful. Yet, the "succeeding" children in these "failing" schools are actually the ones utilizing the funding to go to other schools, making this a mis-allocation and use of funding.[4]
con_6_3	Failing schools will not accept failing students.	"Failing" schools will not accept "failing" students. Underperforming children often have no choice to transfer from one school to another, when all schools are "underperforming" or "failing", in which case schools frequently deny underperforming students access - as a means of keeping up their school's test scores so as to avoid being labelled "failing" and punished.
headline_7	States: Does NCLB strike the right relationship with states?
pro_7_1	Statewide standards are an improvement over major local failures:	Statewide standards are an improvement over major local failures: Local failures have necessitated federal intervention to remedy issues like teachers teaching outside their areas of expertise, and complacency in the face of continually failing schools.[5] Some local governments, notably New York State, have voiced support for NCLB provisions, arguing that local standards had failed to provide adequate oversight over special education, and that NCLB would allow longitudinal data to be more effectively used to monitor Adequate Yearly Progress, also known as AYP.[6]
pro_7_2	No Child Left Behind offers flexibility at state, local level	 No Child Left Behind offers flexibility at state, local level "Fact Sheet on the Major Provisions of the Conference Report to H.R. 1, the No Child Left Behind Act". United States Department of Education - "H.R. 1 will give local school officials serving rural schools and districts more flexibility and a greater say in how federal funds are used in their schools."
pro_7_3	States are free to opt out of No Child Left Behind	 States are free to opt out of No Child Left Behind Chester Finn Jr. "5 Myths About No Child Left Behind". Washington Post. March 30, 2008 - "1. No Child Left Behind is an unprecedented extension of federal control over schools. [...] But NCLB isn't compulsory. States that don't want to jump through its hoops are free to forgo their federal dollars. (Several, such as Utah, Nebraska and Virginia, came close to doing just that, but the lure of those funds helped them overcome their reservations.)"
pro_7_4	NCLB testing is done more widely with greater effect	 NCLB testing is done more widely with greater effect "The Impact of the No Child Left Behind Act on Student Achievement and Growth". Northwest Evaluation Association. April 2005 - "State-level tests tend to improve observed achievement on an independent measure, and therefore, increasing the number of grades in which state tests are given may improve achievement more."
con_7_1	No Child Left Behind exerts too much federal power over states.	No Child Left Behind exerts too much federal power over states. No Child Left Behind imposes many forms of federal regulation and standards over states and their education programs. This violates the right of states, in the US federal system, to control their own independent education programs.
con_7_2	No Child Left Behind encourages states to set low standards	 No Child Left Behind encourages states to set low standards Ryan, J. "The Perverse Incentives of No Child Left Behind Act." July 2, 2004 - "the Act unintentionally encourages states to lower their academic standards. [...] The requirement that an increasing percentage of students in every school achieve a certain test score each year is arbitrary and unrealistic, in that it establishes achievement goals without any reference to past achievement levels or rates of achievement growth. Many schools, including some that are considered effective, will be unable to meet these achievement targets. This will create pressure to make the targets easier to meet by dumbing down the tests or making scoring systems more generous. By this process, a law intended to raise academic standards may lower them."
con_7_3	Education standards between states are inconsistent under NCLB	 Education standards between states are inconsistent under NCLB Because different states can administer their own standards, standards vary across states, which makes it difficult to compare how states are performing relative to one-another.
con_7_4	NCLB damages relationship/accountability of schools to community.	NCLB damages relationship/accountability of schools to community. No Child Left Behind, by creating national and state authority over local and community schools, damages the relationship between these schools and their local communities. This undermines community relationships, trust, and accountability.
headline_8	Equality: Does NCLB improve educational equality?
pro_8_1	NCLB helps narrow the achievement gap for minorities.	NCLB helps narrow the achievement gap for minorities. NCLB seeks to narrow class and racial gaps in school performance by creating common expectations for all. It also requires schools and districts to focus their attention on the academic achievement of traditionally under-served groups of children, such as low-income students, students with disabilities, and African Americans and Latinos. Many previous state-created systems of accountability only measured average school performance, allowing schools to be highly rated even if they had large achievement gaps between affluent and disadvantaged students.
con_8_1	Standardized tests may have cultural biases.	Standardized tests may have cultural biases. Standardized tests are written largely by white men and women, with a certain unintentional bias toward these ethnic groups, putting minorities at a slight disadvantage.
con_8_2	No Child Left Behind lacks non-English tests.	No Child Left Behind lacks non-English tests. Students who are learning English have an automatic three-year-long window to take assessments in their native language, after which they must generally demonstrate proficiency on an English language assessment. The local education authority may grant any student another two years' testing in his native language on a case-by-case basis.  In practice, however, only 10 states choose to test any students in their native language (almost entirely Spanish speakers).
con_8_3	No Child Left Behind effectively penalizes diversity in schools.	No Child Left Behind effectively penalizes diversity in schools. Because diverse schools more frequently have statistically underperforming minority groups, non-native English speakers, or disabled groups, they are much more likely to "fail" and be penalized. No Child Left Behind, therefore, effectively penalizes diversity in schools.
headline_9	Military recruiting: Does NCLB rightly allow military recruiting in schools?
pro_9_1	There is nothing wrong with military recruiting.	There is nothing wrong with military recruiting. Military recruiting in schools is entirely appropriate. National service is an important thing for young members of society to consider being a part of.
con_9_1	Facilitating military recruitment through NCLB is wrong	 Facilitating military recruitment through NCLB is wrong NCLB (In section 9528) requires public secondary schools to provide military recruiters the same access to facilities as a school provides to higher education institution recruiters. Schools are also required to provide contact information for every student to the military if requested, and schools are not required to tell the students or parents. Students or parents can opt out of having their information shared.<ref>(nd) SEC. 9528. ARMED FORCES RECRUITER ACCESS TO STUDENTS AND STUDENT RECRUITING INFORMATION. Department of Education. Retrieved 6/7/07.</ref> <ref>(nd) Military Free Zone. website. Retrieved 6/7/07.</ref>  Currently, many school districts have a generic opt out form which, if filled out and turned in, withholds students' information from college and job recruiters as well as the military.
headline_10	Miscellaneous pro and con arguments:
pro_10_1	There is strong public support for No Child Left Behind	 There is strong public support for No Child Left Behind "Critics are many, but law has solid public support". School Reform News. March 2004 - "Solid Public Support. Bush and NCLB supporters on Capitol Hill also pointed to evidence of public support for NCLB standards and accountability. A national survey conducted in early January for Americans for Better Education by The Winston Group found a solid majority of Americans view NCLB favorably, with support highest among African-Americans and parents of children in public schools. [...] More than 100 black and Latino school officials signed a letter to Congress condemning calls to repeal NCLB’s accountability requirements, asserting the naysayers would “turn back the clock to a time when schools--particularly in suburban communities--could coast comfortably on the performance of a handful of high-performing students and hide serious problems behind misleading averages."
pro_10_2	NCLB funds faith-based orgs for supplemental education	 NCLB funds faith-based orgs for supplemental education No Child Left Behind and Faith-Based Leaders. United States Department of Education. Retrieved February 18, 2009 - "Faith-based organizations can receive funds to provide tutoring and other academic enrichment services for eligible low-income students. Religious organizations can become supplemental educational services providers by applying to states and then working with districts to provide services directly to students in reading, language arts and mathematics. Many faith-based organizations are already providing these services in innercity and rural communities across the country, where assistance is needed most. Faith-based organizations often find it useful to establish their program as a not-for-profit (501c3) to receive funds."
con_10_1	NCLB sets the conditions for the privatization of failing schools.	NCLB sets the conditions for the privatization of "failing" schools. No Child Left Behind creates such impossible standards that it frequently causes modestly performing schools to be labelled "failing" and to be put at risk of privatization or being turned into charter schools.
con_10_2	No Child Left Behind violates separation of church and state.	No Child Left Behind violates separation of church and state. NCLB violates the separation of church and state by allowing "faith-based" groups to serve as private tutors with public money. The US Department of Education's website says: "No Child Left Behind provides opportunities for faith-based organizations to assist in educating children."
