title	Crime cameras
question	Are crime cameras a good idea for cities around the world? In New Orleans?
headline_1	Crime fighting: Are crime cameras helpful in fighting crime?
pro_1_1	Inexpensive camera viewing services are avaialable	Inexpensive camera viewing services are avaialable There are professional services which provide very inexpensive camera viewing over the internet. This is a serious option for people who cannot view their own cameras 24x7 but still would like the service. check out Virtual Video Guard
pro_1_2	Crime cameras help reduce crime rates,	Crime cameras help reduce crime rates, "Cameras have cut violence, study says". The Washington Post. February 21, 2008 - "The report, prepared for the D.C. Council by the office of Police Chief Cathy L. Lanier, says violent crime increased about 1 percent citywide last year. But, it says, violent crime decreased 19 percent within 250 feet of each of the cameras, which the city began installing in August 2006. Property crimes increased 5 percent overall last year but 2 percent in the camera areas, the report says. 'In the seventeen months since cameras were first installed in D.C.'s neighborhoods, the cameras have continued to have a positive impact on public safety in the city,' the report says."
pro_1_3	Hi-tech crime cameras help predict and prevent criminal acts	 Hi-tech crime cameras help predict and prevent criminal acts James Slack. "Caught Before the Act". Daily Mail. November 28, 2008 - "CCTV cameras which can 'predict' if a crime is about to take place are being introduced on Britain's streets. The cameras can alert operators to suspicious behaviour, such as loitering and unusually slow walking. Anyone spotted could then have to explain their behaviour to a police officer."
pro_1_4	Cameras speed up responses to crime and injuries.	Cameras speed up responses to crime and injuries. Jenny Rees. "City cameras 'don't cut crime'". Whales Online. April 25, 2005 - "they allow police officers to respond to incidents more quickly, reducing the number of people who attend hospital accident and emergency departments."
pro_1_5	FBI Reports on the effectivness and future of surveillance cameras.	FBI Reports on the effectivness and future of surveillance cameras."FBI on Human Identification and Recognition""This increase in numbers of cameras means that more and more criminals are being photographed in the commission of their crimes. As a result, these images are being used more and more often to link suspects to their crime.
pro_1_6	Benefits of crime cameras may not be reflected in crime rates.	Benefits of crime cameras may not be reflected in crime rates. John Firman, the director of research at the International Association of Chiefs of Police, said a 2007 ABC article: "We know cameras enhance that capacity but saying for sure that they reduced crime by 20 percent, that's another thing. Anecdotally, we know that they have had an impact."[1]
pro_1_7	Cameras make a small but valuable contribution to crime fighting.	Cameras make a small but valuable contribution to crime fighting. Ken Garcia. "Debate over crime cameras brings out the clueless in S.F.". The Examiner. January 20, 2007 - "The cameras by themselves are not a crime-solving strategy, but part of an overall network designed to stop criminals before or after the act."
con_1_1	CCTV failing to cut crime	CCTV failing to cut crime - Huge investments in CCTV in the UK are failing to cut crime, with only 3% of London's street robberies being solved using the footage.
con_1_2	Crime cameras have not had a significant impact on crime rates	 Crime cameras have not had a significant impact on crime rates Heather Knight. "Crime cameras not capturing many crimes". San Francisco Chronicle. March 21, 2008 - "The cameras have been installed in phases on some of the city's roughest streets since 2005 with large concentrations of them in the Western Addition and Mission District and others in the lower Haight, the Tenderloin and near Coit Tower. [...] The cameras have contributed to only one arrest nearly two years ago in a city that saw 98 homicides last year, a 12-year high. The video is choppy, and police aren't allowed to watch video in real-time or maneuver the cameras to get a better view of potential crimes."
con_1_3	Crime cameras may help prosecutions, but don't reduce crime.	Crime cameras may help prosecutions, but don't reduce crime. Jim Harper, the director of information policy studies at the Cato Institute, was quoted saying in a July 2007 ABC article: "They are good forensic tools — after something happens, they'll tell you what happened. [...] But they do not provide protection against attacks, and that's a key distinction."[2]
headline_2	Deterrence: Do crime cameras help deter crime?
pro_2_1	Crime cameras help deter crime	 Crime cameras help deter crime "Facts about Crime cameras and the city of New Orleans". From the Office of Mayor Nagin - "These cameras help to identify who is involved with specific crimes and provide a deterrent to those who know the cameras are installed."
pro_2_2	Cameras can deter anti-social behavior such as littering	 Cameras can deter anti-social behavior such as littering Adrienne Isnard. "Can surveillance cameras be successful in preventing crime and controlling anti-social behavior?". Australia Institute of Criminology. August 2, 2001 - "Originally surveillance cameras systems were installed to deter burglary, assault and car theft but their use has been extended to include combating 'anti social behaviour', such as littering, urinating in public, traffic violations, obstruction, and drunkenness (Davies 1998)."
con_2_1	Surveillance cameras do not deter crime	 Surveillance cameras do not deter crime Heather Knight. "Crime cameras not capturing many crimes". San Francisco Chronicle. March 21, 2008 - "San Francisco's 68 controversial anti-crime cameras haven't deterred criminals from committing assaults, sex offenses or robberies - and they've only moved homicides down the block, according to a new report from UC Berkeley."
con_2_2	Crime cameras cannot deter criminals that do not fear the law	 Crime cameras cannot deter criminals that do not fear the law Theodore Dalrymple. "Cameras, Crooks, and Deterrence". City Journal. October 16, 2007 - "A recent study demonstrating this failure to improve the clear-up rate, however, could not also show that the cameras failed to deter crime in the first place. Common sense suggests that they should deter, but common sense might be wrong. For if the punishment of detected crime is insufficient to deter, there is no reason why the presence of cameras should deter."
headline_3	Shifting crime: Do crime cameras merely shift crime?
pro_3_1	Shift in crime means cameras are working, should be expanded	 Shift in crime means cameras are working, should be expanded If cameras shift crime away from an area, it means they are doing their job of tracking and deterring crime in an area. By subsequently expanding crime cameras, it may be possible to entirely flush crime out of a city. 
pro_3_2	Even shifting crime with cameras can benefit communities.	Even shifting crime with cameras can benefit communities. San Francisco Mayor said to the San Francisco Chronicle in 2008, "When I put the first cameras in, I said, 'This may only move people around the corner. But the community there said, 'We don't care, we want our alleyway back.' No one's actually had a camera up that they wanted torn down in the community."[3]
con_3_1	Surveillance cameras merely shift crime to different areas	 Surveillance cameras merely shift crime to different areas Heather Knight. "Crime cameras not capturing many crimes". San Francisco Chronicle. March 21, 2008 - San Francisco's 68 controversial anti-crime cameras haven't deterred criminals from committing assaults, sex offenses or robberies - and they've only moved homicides down the block, according to a new report from UC Berkeley.
headline_4	Sense of safety: Do cameras create a sense of safety?
pro_4_1	Crime cameras help restore a public sense of safety	 Crime cameras help restore a public sense of safety In December, 2008, an armed robbery attempt in New Orleans failed after the victim, according to police, "...advised the suspect that there were several surveillance cameras in the area," and walked safely away from the criminal.[4] The episode suggests that the victim felt that the cameras provided a critical layer of protection against the assailant. While law enforcers did not suggest that others pursue the same course of action as the victim in this story, it is clear that the crime cameras provided a real sense of safety for this man and probably for other members of his community as well.
con_4_1	Spending on cameras for a sense of safety is wasteful	 Spending on cameras for a "sense of safety" is wasteful Heather Knight. "Crime cameras not capturing many crimes". San Francisco Chronicle. March 21, 2008 - "not all city officials think it's wise to spend money on public safety measures if the best thing that can be said about them is they have a placebo effect for worried residents."
con_4_2	Crime cameras offer a dangerous false sense of security	 Crime cameras offer a dangerous false sense of security San Francisco Police Commissioner Joe Alioto-Veronese said to the San Francisco Chronicle in March 2008: "In their current configuration they are not useful, and they give people a false sense of security, which I think is bad."[5]
headline_5	Prosecution: Are crime cameras helpful in prosecuting crimes?
pro_5_1	Crime cameras help catch criminals and get them off the street	 Crime cameras help catch criminals and get them off the street "Facts about Crime cameras and the city of New Orleans". From the Office of Mayor Nagin - "What is the purpose of the cameras? Crime cameras are useful in fighting illegal activity. They record activities in the areas they cover and thus create an instant record of what is happening."
pro_5_2	Crime cameras offer conclusive, unbiased evidence in court.	Crime cameras offer conclusive, unbiased evidence in court. New Orleans Mayor Nagin said in 2005 when unveiling his crime camera program: "These cameras not only record crime, they are witnesses that cannot be intimidated."[6] Indeed, when crime cameras capture a crime, they expose the reality of those involved and the details of their actions. They reveal the truth, upon which justice relies. This stands in stark contrast with less detailed testimonies and heresy, making cameras particularly valuable to the justice system.
con_5_1	Crime camera evidence is very rarely used in court cases.	Crime camera evidence is very rarely used in court cases. Brendan McCarthy. "Crime-fighting cameras are the wrong focus, some say". NOLA.com. March 26, 2007 - "Major cities across the country that have launched crime-camera programs have seen similar results. [...] In both Baltimore and Chicago, two cities at the forefront of camera surveillance, police espouse their benefits, but prosecutors say the cameras rarely factor into courtroom proceedings." 
headline_6	Broken cameras: Are broken crime cameras a significant problem?
pro_6_1	Damaged crime cameras can be fixed.	Damaged crime cameras can be fixed. Crime cameras that are not working can be fixed. And, if a line of cameras does not work consistently, they can be replaced with a different camera from a different company. In general, difficulties with specific cameras can be fixed, and should not go against the general merits of crime cameras. 
pro_6_2	Even broken cameras can offer a deterrent effect on crime.	Even broken cameras can offer a deterrent effect on crime. Some communities actually use "dummy cameras" (props that look like real cameras to criminals) mixed in with operating cameras to deter criminal activities. The important thing is that criminals think that they are being watched by a camera. Broken cameras can, therefore, still have a valuable deterrent effect on crime. 
con_6_1	Too few crime cameras are working to fight/deter crime	 Too few crime cameras are working to fight/deter crime New Orleans City Councilwoman Stacy Head said in the fall of 2008: "There are so many crimes that have taken place near crime cameras that weren't working, that shoots the deterrent argument away."[7]
headline_7	Civil liberties: Are crime cameras consistent with civil liberties?
pro_7_1	Crime-ridden communities have right to demand and install cameras	 Crime-ridden communities have right to demand and install cameras Ken Garcia. "Debate over crime cameras brings out the clueless in S.F." The Examiner. January 20, 2007 - "You can expect any issue that loosely covers the term civil liberties to bring out the masses in San Francisco  [...] Yet, thankfully there was one argument that commissioners just couldn’t brush aside. And that is that people who live in and near neighborhoods rife with prostitution, drug-dealing, robberies and frenetic gang acti- vity desperately want surveillance cameras, and the more the better. It’s a cry that’s been heard for some time around town, and given the relatively paltry cost of the equipment. it seems but a trifle to fret over."
pro_7_2	Crime cameras in public spaces do not really invade privacy.	Crime cameras in public spaces do not really invade privacy. Ken Garcia. "Debate over crime cameras brings out the clueless in S.F." The Examiner. January 20, 2007 - "I count myself among those opposed to more government interference in personal privacy, but that’s not really a big issue here. These cameras are going on public streets, not in bedrooms, and those who object are ignoring the obvious, ideology serving here as a highly effective blinder."
pro_7_3	Crime camera privacy, Big Brother concerns are exaggerated	 Crime camera privacy, Big Brother concerns are exaggerated When new crime cameras are being considered and installed in a city, it is typical that the media, civil rights groups, and skeptical citizens exaggerate the claims regarding the implications for privacy, civil liberties, and for the role of Big Brother. Years after the successful implementation of cameras, and with no privacy incidence or abuses, these initial protests appear for what they are - exaggerations and fear mongering. 
pro_7_4	Crime cameras violate privacy no more than corner store cameras.	Crime cameras violate privacy no more than corner store cameras. Ken Garcia. "Debate over crime cameras brings out the clueless in S.F.". The Examiner. January 20, 2007 - "The people who complain about the use of cameras on the street say nothing about their presence in their corner store, the post office, the subway, Macy’s, Safeway or just about every commercial enterprise in existence. They’re now found in taxis, buses, trains and of course, airports, let alone public buildings, such as the one that played back the proceedings at the Police Commission for a cable TV audience."
pro_7_5	Cameras help protect citizens' liberties against crime.	Cameras help protect citizens' liberties against crime. Ken Garcia. "Debate over crime cameras brings out the clueless in S.F." The Examiner. January 20, 2007 - "There’s no doubt that people with thick rap sheets don’t like them, and they’re the people who are really infringing on our civil liberties."
pro_7_6	If a person has nothing to hide, then there is no issue.	 If a person has nothing to hide, then there is no issue. Cameras are there to protect the public. They are not in place to spy on people and have no interest in the personal lives of those on camera. The only interest is in the people breaking the law. If a person has nothing to hide then they should have no problem being filmed, they should be thankful that the authorities are trying to protec them and their peers.
con_7_1	Crime cameras are an intrusion on individual privacy rights	 Crime cameras are an intrusion on individual privacy rights Former Oakland Mayor (now California Attorney General) Jerry Brown said in 1999 when the City of Oakland rejected proposed video surveillance cameras: "Reducing crime is something the community and police must work on together. Installing a few or a few dozen surveillance cameras will not make us safe. It should also not be forgotten that the intrusive powers of the state are growing with each passing decade."[8]
con_7_2	Crime cameras with ID technology deeply violate privacy	 Crime cameras with ID technology deeply violate privacy "Under the Watchful Eye". American Civil Liberties Union - "Threat to Civil Liberties from Combined Technologies Government-run video surveillance can radically alter the relationship between law enforcement and the public. By itself, pervasive video surveillance threatens privacy rights. But even more disturbing, the threat multiplies when government combines cameras with emerging technologies such as automated identification software, face and eye scans, radio frequency identification (RF ID) tags, and databases accessible to law enforcement. In that context, video surveillance provides a critical pillar of a surveillance infrastructure. It creates the potential for the government to monitor people in public space, in a way envisioned only in futuristic novels."
con_7_3	Crime cameras lead to slippery slope of Big Brother surveillance.	Crime cameras lead to slippery slope of Big Brother surveillance. Crime cameras are only the beginning of a host of violations of civil liberties on the part of government. While the objectives of surveillance may be modest in the beginning, they are likely to include in the future certain video ID schemes that track every individual's movements and actions at all times in search of suspicious or subversive behavior. The risks are real of crime cameras leading to the police state scenarios depicted in George Orwell's 1984.
con_7_4	Police abuse crime cameras, leering at women.	Police abuse crime cameras, leering at women. Surveillance cameras are often used by police to leer at women, instead of to fight crime. This unfortunate abuse is common, crude and undignified, and a distraction for police from their real duties.
con_7_5	Crime cameras place security over civil liberties.	Crime cameras place security over civil liberties. While security interests are important, security cameras wrongly place them over civil liberties. Constitutional principles surrounding civil liberties exist for a reason, and are meant to be immutable. Expediencies such as increased security should not be allowed to bend or break these important moral principles and lines. 
headline_8	Costs: Are crime cameras cost-effective?
pro_8_1	Crime cameras help reduce frequency of community patrols.	Crime cameras help reduce frequency of community patrols. Police typically patrol neighborhoods with a certain frequency. It is possible for police to reduce the frequency of their patrolling in neighborhoods with crime cameras. This is due largely to the fact that crime cameras help deter and reduce crime, reducing the demand for police patrolling in a certain neighborhood. In addition, newer crime cameras can help detect criminal activity and alert officers to attend to suspicious activities. This is why cameras are often viewed as "extra crime-fighting eyes". By helping reduce the need to patrol certain areas, crime cameras can help reduce the costs required to support such police patrolling.
pro_8_2	Crime cameras are cost-effective only when used properly	 Crime cameras are cost-effective only when used properly Benjamin Wachs. "Crime cameras work, but SF doesn't work the cameras". SF Weekly. June 27, 2008 - "Even by the standard of San Francisco’s pretty lousy records, SF’s crime cameras have a pretty lousy record. As SF Weekly has previously reported, they’ve cost nearly $1 million, led to only 1 arrest, and have provided police with virtually no useful information [...] But here’s the funny thing … by which I mean sad: other municipalities have had crime camera programs that work. We’ve previously reported about the success of Washington D.C.’s crime cameras, which reduced crime by 19 percent in areas covered by cameras and helped catch suspects.[...] How do they do it? [...] Simple: Like D.C., Rochester actually has real people watching the cameras. SF … for some reason … doesn’t." [the issue, therefore, is not whether crime cameras are good or bad, but how to best build a strong crime camera program with practices that ensure crime cameras are being used effectively.
con_8_1	Maintaining crime cameras costs too much.	Maintaining crime cameras costs too much. "Mayor Nagin: Please handle your business". New Orleans Citizen Crime Watch. November 19th, 2008 - "Councilwoman Stacy Head said the city has spent $7,500 per camera this year for maintenance and upgrades to each of the 240 cameras, while it costs only $6,240 to buy and install a new camera. The $1.6 million proposed for maintenance and restoration in 2009 is more than it would cost to buy all new cameras." 
con_8_2	Crime cameras are too costly for too few benefits	 Crime cameras are too costly for too few benefits "If New Orleans' crime cameras are useless, cut them from the budget". Times-Picayune. November 15, 2008 - "New Orleanians have patiently waited for the Nagin administration and its contractors to deliver on promises to install up to 1,000 working crime cameras that would help convict violent offenders and reduce crime. [...] What residents have gotten instead is a program dogged by waste, technical problems and scant evidence that it's making a substantial difference in the fight against crime."
con_8_3	New Orleans mayor gave wasteful contracts for crime cameras	New Orleans mayor gave wasteful contracts for crime cameras.
con_8_4	Police should not waste time watching crime cameras	 Police should not waste time watching crime cameras It is a waste of police resources for officers to spend significant amounts of time watching surveillance cameras for signs of criminal activity. Their time would be better spent patrolling the streets.
con_8_5	Crime cameras often have no one watching due to limited resources.	Crime cameras often have no one watching due to limited resources. "Shambles over crime cameras". Western Daily Press. November 28, 2008 - "Crime in Cirencester town centre is going unmonitored because there is no one to watch the CCTV full-time. Cotswold District Council has failed to replace the contract to monitor the cameras in the town. Police community support officers have had to be drafted in to fill the breach on Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays. But at all other times the cameras have been on automatic, with police reviewing tapes after an incident." 
