title	Guantanamo Bay detention center
question	Is the US Guantanamo Bay detention center justified or should it be closed?
headline_1	Judicial process: Do Guantanamo courts provide adequate judicial process?
pro_1_1	Enemy combatants receive sufficient judicial process under i-law	 Enemy combatants receive sufficient judicial process under i-law Morris Davis. "The Guantánamo I Know". New York Times. June 26, 2007 - "Some imply that if a defendant does not get a trial that looks like Martha Stewart’s and ends like O. J. Simpson’s, then military commissions are flawed. They are mistaken. The Constitution does not extend to alien unlawful enemy combatants. They are entitled to protections under Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions, which ensures they are afforded 'all the judicial guarantees which are recognized as indispensable by civilized peoples.' [...] Justice John Paul Stevens, in the Hamdan decision that rejected an earlier plan for military commissions, observed that Article 75 of the Additional Protocol to the Geneva Conventions defines the judicial guarantees recognized as indispensable. A comparison of Article 75 and the Military Commissions Act of 2006 shows military commissions provide the fundamental guarantees." 
pro_1_2	Enemy combatants are afforded a form of habeas corpus	 Enemy combatants are afforded a form of habeas corpus Morris Davis. "The Guantánamo I Know". New York Times. June 26, 2007 - "Each accused receives a copy of the charges in his native language." This qualifies as habeus corpus (ie. charging the imprisoned with a specific crime). 
pro_1_3	There is sufficient review process for detainees at Guantanamo	 There is sufficient review process for detainees at Guantanamo The review process for detainees is good. The continued detention of detainees is reviewed once a year by military boards. In addition, prisoners are assigned advocates to help argue their cases. This is sufficient.
pro_1_4	Enemy combatants can be held without trial until hostilities cease	 Enemy combatants can be held without trial until hostilities cease It is fair to hold someone without charge or trial, under the terms of a military order initiated in November 2001, as “enemy combatants.” This is similar to holding prisoners of war until hostilities cease, in which it is not legally necessary to provide the prisoners with recourse to judicial process. It is merely necessary to wait until hostilities cease. Under the same logic, "enemy combatants" can be held without judicial recourse until hostilities in the war on terror or the war against Al Qaeda cease.
pro_1_5	Poor judicial process can be improved; no cause to close Guantanamo.	Poor judicial process can be improved; no cause to close Guantanamo. There have been steady improvements in the judicial processes involved at Guantanamo Bay. For sure, the newness of the war on terror and the new legal concept of "enemy combatants" makes it unsurprising that difficulties in legal processes have arisen. But, these problems are being solved, and they should not give rise to calls for the closure of Guantanamo. Rather, Guantanamo should be reformed and improved.
pro_1_6	Unlawful combatants don't have same rights as citizens or soldiers	 Unlawful combatants don't have same rights as citizens or soldiers Dick Cheney said in an interview on Larry King in December of 2008: "Once you go out and capture a bunch of terrorists, as we did in Afghanistan and elsewhere, then you've got to have some place to put them. If you bring them here to the U.S. and put them in our local court system, then they are entitled to all kinds of rights that we extend only to American citizens. Remember, these are unlawful combatants."[1]
pro_1_7	There is substantial evidence against remaining detainees	 There is substantial evidence against remaining detainees "Pentagon urges Congress to keep Guantanamo open". Reuters. May 9, 2007 - "Defense officials sought to bolster the prison's image, saying 95 percent of detainees are connected to al Qaeda, the Taliban or their associates and more than 70 percent have had a role in attacks on U.S. or coalition forces. [...] 'Our critics would say that those we're holding are farmers, cooks or other types of noncombatants. I think if you look at the classified records, they tell a different story,' Benkert said."
con_1_1	Guantanamo violates habeas corpus, obstructs proof of innocence	 Guantanamo violates habeas corpus, obstructs proof of innocence Prisoners have been detained at Guantanamo for long periods without a clear charges being filed and without trial. This is a violation of the international legal principle of habeas corpus. One of the primary problems is that, without clear charges and a presentation of evidence against a suspect, the suspect cannot contest the charges and prove their own innocence. And, as a matter of fact, numerous detainees have been found innocent, but only after excessively long periods with being charged or brought before a court.
con_1_2	Guantanamo Bay prisoners have no way of proving innocence	Guantanamo Bay prisoners have no way of proving innocence.
con_1_3	Guantanamo is inconsistent with American principles of justice	 Guantanamo is inconsistent with American principles of justice "The President's Prison". New York Times. March 25, 2007 - "the Bush administration says no prisoner should be allowed to take torture claims to court, including the innocents who were tortured and released. The administration's argument is that how prisoners are treated is a state secret and cannot be discussed openly. If that sounds nonsensical, it is. [...] The Bush administration has so badly subverted American norms of justice in handling these cases that they would not stand up to scrutiny in a real court of law. It is a clear case of justice denied."
con_1_4	Too many Guantanamo detainees are falsely accused and imprisoned	 Too many Guantanamo detainees are falsely accused and imprisoned Thomas Wilner. "We Don't Need Guantanamo Bay". Wall Street. December 22, 2008 - "We now know, however, that many Guantanamo detainees never fought against anyone; they were simply turned over by Northern Alliance and Pakistani warlords for bounties of up to $25,000. For almost seven years they have been held without a fair hearing or opportunity to demonstrate those facts. The Supreme Court ruled last June in Boumediene v. Bush that these men have the constitutional right to prompt hearings to determine if there is adequate reason for detaining them. Since that decision, lower courts have reviewed the cases of 23 detainees and have found no credible basis for detaining 22 of them."
con_1_5	Some Guantanamo detainees were unjustly captured outside conflict zone	 Some Guantanamo detainees were unjustly captured outside conflict zone "Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights. Civil and Political Rights. Situation of detainees at Guantánamo Bay". United Nations Economic and Social Council. February 15, 2006 - "Many of the detainees held at Guantánamo Bay were captured in places where there was – at the time of their arrest – no armed conflict involving the United States. The case of the six men of Algerian origin detained in Bosnia and Herzegovina in October 2001 is a well-known and well-documented example,24 but also numerous other detainees have been arrested under similar circumstances where international humanitarian law did not apply. The legal provision allowing the United States to hold belligerents without charges or access to counsel for the duration of hostilities can therefore not be invoked to justify their detention."
con_1_6	Past Cuba-US treaties forbid the current use of Guantanamo	 Past Cuba-US treaties forbid the current use of Guantanamo When the United States occupied Cuba in 1903 it established a treaty that gave the United States authority to operate Guantanamo, "exclusively as coaling or naval stations, and for no other purpose." In 1934, the treaty was modified, but specified that "the stipulations of [the 1903] agreement with regard to the naval station of Guantánamo shall continue in effect." The use of Guantanamo for other purposes, the Guantanamo Bay detention facility, seems to clearly violate these exclusive purposes.
con_1_7	General opinions in favor of closing Guantanamo Bay	 General opinions in favor of closing Guantanamo Bay Jamil Dakwar, a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union who observed pretrial hearings at Guantanamo this week: "It is a major positive step in the right direction."[2]
con_1_8	Guantanamo Bay violates the Geneva convention	Guantanamo Bay violates the Geneva convention.
headline_2	US courts: Should Guantanamo detainees be tried in US courts?
con_2_1	Many detainees committed no crimes, but are very dangerous	 Many detainees committed no "crimes", but are very dangerous "Obama and Guantanamo". Wall Street Journal. January 22, 2009 - "many of the Guantanamo prisoners haven't committed crimes per se but are dedicated American enemies and too dangerous to let go. Other cases involve evidence that is insufficient for trial but still sufficient to determine that release is an unacceptable security risk."
con_2_2	Evidence against terrorists is not always valid in civilian courts	 Evidence against terrorists is not always valid in civilian courts "Obama and Guantanamo". Wall Street Journal. January 22, 2009 - "any evidence probably can't be admitted in civilian courts because terrorists aren't read their Miranda rights when picked up in combat zones."
con_2_3	Conducting detainee trials in the US would endanger US citizens	 Conducting detainee trials in the US would endanger US citizens "9/11 Families Outraged by Obama Call to Suspend Guantanamo War Crimes Trials". Fox News. January 21, 2009 - "some 9/11 families said they were concerned that if the trials were moved to criminal courts in the U.S., the proceedings would put civilians at risk.[...] 'The safest place to have these trials is Guantanamo Bay. If they were to move to the homeland it would endanger all of us,' said Lorraine Arias Believeau of New Jersey, whose brother, Adam, was killed on 9/11."
con_2_4	Guantanamo tribunal have been authorized by US courts.	Guantanamo tribunal have been authorized by US courts. The legal definition of "enemy combatants" has been affirmed by American judges in court rulings. This created a unique category of conditions for the treatment of detainees and constraints on their habeas corpus rights. If this category and rulings are determined to be false or legally thin in some ways, than, certainly, elements of Guantanamo Bay do not make sense, and the camp should be changed. Yet, until the notion of "enemy combatants" is shown to be faulty, there is a sound legal basis for Guantanamo Bay's existence. 
con_2_5	Trying terrorists in the US will give them a forum for grandstanding	 Trying terrorists in the US will give them a forum for grandstanding Thomas Joscelyn. "Clear and Present Danger". The Weekly Standard. December 1, 2008 - "Obama will probably end the military commission system. He has suggested that he wants to try some of the detainees in a civilian court. But trying the most dangerous terrorists, such as the 14 high value detainees, in a civilian court will give them a forum in which to grandstand."
pro_2_1	Detainees have a right to due process and protections in US courts	 Detainees have a right to due process and protections in US courts Colin Powell: "I would get rid of Guantanamo and the military commission system and use established procedures in federal law[...]It's a more equitable way, and more understandable in constitutional terms,"[3]
pro_2_2	US courts can successfully try Guantanamo detainees	 US courts can successfully try Guantanamo detainees Thomas Wilner. "We Don't Need Guantanamo Bay". Wall Street. December 22, 2008 - "Our courts are fully capable of [trying terrorists]. They have rendered 145 convictions in terror-related cases in the past. And their decisions have far greater credibility than any jerry-rigged commission system ever could."
pro_2_3	Closing Guantanamo need not free un-triable, dangerous detainees	 Closing Guantanamo need not free un-triable, dangerous detainees
pro_2_4	Dangerous Guantanamo detainees should be held as POWs	 Dangerous Guantanamo detainees should be held as POWs Many ask, if Guantanamo is closed, what should be done with the clearly dangerous and guilty detainees? One option supported by many legal scholars is to simply hold these detainees as prisoners of war until hostilities cease in the "War on Terror". This will ensure these individuals are not released and allowed to wage terrorism, while also affording them appropriate international legal protections. 
pro_2_5	US prisons are capable of handling Guantanamo detainees	 US prisons are capable of handling Guantanamo detainees The US prison system, which holds over two million prisoners, is fully capable of holding an additional one or two hundred detainees from Guantanamo. The added costs should also be very minimal for taxpayers. 
pro_2_6	Guantanamo was wrongly created to avoid US law and courts	 Guantanamo was wrongly created to avoid US law and courts Thomas Wilner. "We Don't Need Guantanamo Bay". Wall Street. December 22, 2008 - "closing the detention facility there does not mean that we cannot detain people. Guantanamo is only a place. But it is a place chosen by the Bush administration for a single purpose: to avoid the law. Because it is outside our borders, the administration argued that prisoners held there were beyond the jurisdiction of our courts and the protections of the Constitution. The Supreme Court has now rejected those arguments."
pro_2_7	Difficulty closing Guantanamo is fault of Bush for creating it	 Difficulty closing Guantanamo is fault of Bush for creating it There are challenges in closing Guantanamo, for instance in dealing with detainees for which their is scant evidence of wrong-doing, or for detainees that have been tortured, but this is the fault of the Bush administration in creating Guantanamo Bay and implementing poor due process practices in the first place, not of those seeking to dismantle Guantanamo now.
headline_3	Classified information: Are Guantanamo courts necessary to preserve classified information?
pro_3_1	Trying detainees in US courts would compromise sources	 Trying detainees in US courts would compromise sources Beyond Guantanamo. Chicago Tribune. January 22, 2009 - "[Many] suspects [at Guantanamo] may be impossible to convict [in federal courts] because putting forth the evidence against them would compromise intelligence sources." 
pro_3_2	US trials of detainees exposes intelligence, weakens security	 US trials of detainees exposes intelligence, weakens security "EDITORIAL: Obama and Gitmo". Washington Times. November 12, 2008 - "Mr. Obama suggests that trying the terrorists in open court did not damage U.S. security. He neglects to mention what took place during the prosecution of the sheik. [...] During the trial, prosecutors turned over a list of 200 unindicted conspirators to the defense - as the civilian criminal justice system required them to do. Within 10 days, the list made its way to downtown Khartoum, and Osama bin Laden knew that the U.S. government was on his trail. By giving this information to the defense in that terrorism case, the U.S. courts gave al Qaeda valuable information about which of its agents had been uncovered." 
con_3_1	US courts have rules for classified info in terror cases	 US courts have rules for classified info in terror cases Thomas Wilner. "We Don't Need Guantanamo Bay". Wall Street. December 22, 2008 - "There is no need for 'new rules' to handle classified information. Congress has already established detailed rules and procedures in the Classified Information Protection Act. They carefully balance the defendant's right to be informed of the charges against him with the government's need to protect classified information from disclosure. Those procedures have worked in the past and would work again. There is also no need for specialized, extra-constitutional 'national security courts.'"
headline_4	Tortured detainees: Can tortured detainees only be tried in Guantanamo?
pro_4_1	Tortured detainees cannot be tried in US, would be released	 Tortured detainees cannot be tried in US, would be released "9/11 Families Outraged by Obama Call to Suspend Guantanamo War Crimes Trials". Fox News. January 21, 2009 - If transferred to U.S. courts, some of the detainees might be freed because of the aggressive interrogation techniques used against them. Mohammed al-Qahtani, the alleged "20th hijacker" in the Sept. 11 plot, was interrogated so severely at Guantanamo Bay that Bush administration officials said he was tortured and did not refer his case for prosecution."
con_4_1	That detainees were tortured should not now prevent US trials	 That detainees were tortured should not now prevent US trials Thomas Wilner. "We Don't Need Guantanamo Bay". Wall Street. December 22, 2008 - "Some worry that we won't be able to convict hardened al Qaeda criminals because the evidence against them was extracted by torture and can't be used in court. If that is a problem, it exists only for a limited group. We can avoid the problem in the future by not torturing people."
con_4_2	Tortured detainees can be successfully tried in US courts	 Tortured detainees can be successfully tried in US courts Thomas Wilner. "We Don't Need Guantanamo Bay". Wall Street. December 22, 2008 - "In any event, no actual case has been identified where the government would be precluded from obtaining a conviction against a known al Qaeda operative because most of the significant evidence was obtained through torture. True, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed said a lot of things under torture. But he has also freely admitted that he is an al Qaeda fighter."
headline_5	War on terror: Does Guantanamo aid America's war on terror?
pro_5_1	Guantanamo Bay and the threat of detention helps deter terrorists.	Guantanamo Bay and the threat of detention helps deter terrorists. This coupled with the lack of a trial adds to the fear of the place and thus denounces terrorism. What is a deterrent and why is it necessary? A deterrent is something which persuades someone not to act in a certain way. Similar to the accumulation of nuclear missiles actually deterring a war between large nations, a deterrent can be created around something deemed morally wrong (a prison which may/may not breech human rights) and yet help the greatest number of people and is, thus, justifiable. The whole basis of terrorism is formed upon an ideology and stems  from indoctrination. If there is a seed of doubt  then it is likely that the person in question will not commit so called "acts of terror". This is supported by President Bush's quote below.
pro_5_2	Guantanamo Bay helps disrupt terrorist groups.	Guantanamo Bay helps disrupt terrorist groups. Putting an important section in that group in prison obviously stops the coordination and the indoctrination of younger members. This makes it harder for terrorist groups to operate effectively. The presumption is that during that time the USA will have gathered adequate intelligence and information upon which to destroy the group and the war on terror is that little bit nearer to ending.
pro_5_3	If released, many Guantanamo detainees will return to terrorism	 If released, many Guantanamo detainees will return to terrorism Many of the terrorists that have been released from Guantanamo have returned to terrorism. The Washington Post reported in 2005 that at least 10 of the 202 detainees released from Guantanamo were later captured or killed while fighting U.S. and coalition forces in Afghanistan and Pakistan. This is a relatively high number, given the fact that only a small percentage of those that returned to terrorism would later be caught or killed. Clearly, there is a reason why these terrorists are being held; to protect the world from their aggression.
pro_5_4	Closing Guantanamo Bay would embolden terrorists	 Closing Guantanamo Bay would embolden terrorists "Closing GITMO would be a mistake" My San Antonio. January 18, 2009 - "If soon-to-be President Obama closes down GITMO, as he may do via executive order as early as his first week in office, he will be providing a significant propaganda victory to our enemies. Even if Obama is attempting to derail the constant maligning of our detention operations in Guantanamo Bay, he is wrong in the assumption that closing down the facility will result in a public relations victory."
con_5_1	Guantanamo bay's existence fuels terrorist causes	 Guantanamo bay's existence fuels terrorist causes The existence of Guantanamo Bay is cited by terrorists as a tool of "the great Satan" and is seen by Muslims in general as a demonstration of US disregard for their dignity. It is, in turn, an effective tool used by terrorists and Jihadists to bring recruits on-board.
con_5_2	Closing Guantanamo renews US moral authority against terrorists	 Closing Guantanamo renews US moral authority against terrorists President Obama said following his inauguration in January 2009, "the message we are sending around the world is that the United States intends to prosecute the ongoing struggle against violence and terrorism, and we are going to do so vigilantly; we are going to do so effectively; and we are going to do so in a manner that is consistent with our values and our ideals. We think that it is precisely our ideals that give us the strength and the moral high ground to be able to effectively deal with the unthinking violence that we see emanating from terrorist organizations around the world. We intend to win this fight. We're going to win it on our terms."[4]
con_5_3	Preventive detention at Guantanamo trades liberty for security	 Preventive detention at Guantanamo trades liberty for security
con_5_4	Guantanamo is based on a false choice b/w security and principle	 Guantanamo is based on a false choice b/w security and principle 
con_5_5	Closing Guantanamo clarifies detention policy in military	 Closing Guantanamo clarifies detention policy in military 
con_5_6	Deterrent effect of Guantanamo on terrorists cannot be confirmed.	"Deterrent effect" of Guantanamo on terrorists cannot be confirmed. This is mainly due to the fact that terrorists' feelings or fears in regards to the Guantanamo Bay prison cannot be statistically gathered. Similarly, the terrorists posing a threat to the safety of Western Nations are typically so ideologically fanatical and assured that their path is the righteous one, that there is nothing that would persuade them otherwise, including the risk of imprisonment at Guantanamo. A case study to show the lack of effectiveness of detaining prisoners can be seen in Northern Ireland. There the detainment of "unsavory characters" during the crisis coincided with an increase in the number of IRA members and attacks. The detainment without trial adopted by the government at the time seemed to fuel the fire of fanatics.
con_5_7	Guantanamo undermines the security of US troops against torture.	Guantanamo undermines the security of US troops against torture. Human Rights First issued a statement on behalf of the retired military officers in mid January 2009: "It is vital to the safety of our men and women in uniform that the United States never sanction the use of interrogation methods that we would find unacceptable if inflicted by an enemy against captured Americans."[5]
con_5_8	Released Guantanamo detainees are unlikely to return to terrorism	 Released Guantanamo detainees are unlikely to return to terrorism
con_5_9	Any released detainees would be a drop in the bucket for terrorism.	Any released detainees would be a drop in the bucket for terrorism. There are tens of thousands of anti-American terrorists around the world. Releasing a handful of the 250 detainees that are actually terrorists but that can't be tried in the US (let's say 20 - it will be very few), would be a drop in the bucket for terrorism and the war on terror. 
headline_6	Intelligence: Is Guantanamo important to information gathering in War on Terror?
pro_6_1	Guantanamo is key to information gathering in the war on terror	 Guantanamo is key to information gathering in the war on terror Dick Cheney said in an interview on ABC in December 2008: "Guantanamo has been very, very valuable [in the war on terror."[6]
pro_6_2	Terrorist interrogations must be performed, why not at Guantanamo?	 Terrorist interrogations must be performed, why not at Guantanamo? Many terrorists need to be interrogated in order to obtain information that can help save lives. Interrogations cannot and shouldn't occur at ordinary prisons, where the purpose of imprisonment is very different. Therefore, a special detention facility does need to exist to allow for these interrogations to take place. Why shouldn't it remain Guantanamo, even if certain modifications to the facility and practices there need to be made. 
con_6_1	The indefinite detention of prisoners for intelligence-gathering is unjust	 The indefinite detention of prisoners for intelligence-gathering is unjust "Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights. Civil and Political Rights. Situation of detainees at Guantánamo Bay". United Nations Economic and Social Council. February 15, 2006 - "The indefinite detention of prisoners of war and civilian internees for purposes of continued interrogation is inconsistent with the provisions of the Geneva Conventions 23."
con_6_2	Intel from Guantanamo detainee interrogation is unreliable	 Intel from Guantanamo detainee interrogation is unreliable Intelligence gathered over WMD in Iraq was clearly wrong. Therefore, one has to question the methods by which this information is extracted and formulated. High ranking US military officials "have gone public saying that the interrogations at Guantanamo have yielded no valuable intelligence."[7]. Guantanamo Admiral Mike Mullen (even with his knowledge) stated to Joint Chiefs of Staff in October, “I’d like to see it shut down.” Surely this is proof that little is gained through Guantanamo.
con_6_3	Detainees at Guantanamo for years have no more intel value.	Detainees at Guantanamo for years have no more intel value. After years of detention and separation from the battle field and terrorist networks, many Guantanamo detainees have no more value to US intelligence gathering efforts and national security. 
con_6_4	Guantanamo bay's existence alienates potential intelligence sources	 Guantanamo bay's existence alienates potential intelligence sources The highly unpopular existence of Guantanamo Bay makes it more risky for intelligence sources to come out and provide useful information that they might otherwise be willing to provide.
headline_7	Torture: Is torture occurring in Guantanamo?
pro_7_1	Guantanamo detainees are not being tortured	 Guantanamo detainees are not being tortured Dick Cheney said on Larry King Live in 2007: "We support the ability of certain agencies of the federal government to have the capacity to use enhanced techniques for interrogation. We have authorization that we got from the Congress to in fact do that. And they do it under very careful safeguards and very stringent safeguards. We're careful not to torture. We're not in the business of torturing people."[8]
con_7_1	Guantanamo detainees are being tortured	 Guantanamo detainees are being tortured "Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights. Civil and Political Rights. Situation of detainees at Guantánamo Bay". United Nations Economic and Social Council. February 15, 2006 - "There are recurrent reports of three contexts in which excessive force was routinely used: during transportation,72 with regard to operations by the “Initial Reaction Forces” (IRF), and by force-feeding during hunger strikes. The last is briefly dealt with in section V on the right to health. According to reports by the defence counsels, some of the methods used to force-feed definitely amounted to torture."
con_7_2	US definitions of torture do not comply with international definitions	 US definitions of torture do not comply with international definitions British judge Mr Justice Collins remarked in 2006 during a hearing on the holding of British residents in Guantanamo that the United States' idea of torture "doesn't appear to coincide with that of most civilised countries".[9]
headline_8	Detainee treatment: Are detainees treated adequately in Guantanamo Bay?
pro_8_1	Conditions at Guantanamo are very good for detainees	 Conditions at Guantanamo are very good for detainees - Prisoner conditions at Guantanamo have actually improved substantially in President Bush's second term (04-08). This incremental change is largely due to the negative attention surrounding Guantanamo. It means that it may no longer be necessary to close down Guantanamo. In general, such opportunities for positive reform should be considered before closure.
pro_8_2	The public image of Guantanamo is far worse than the reality	 The public image of Guantanamo is far worse than the reality Morris Davis. "The Guantánamo I Know". New York Times. June 26, 2007 - "LINDSEY GRAHAM, a Republican senator from South Carolina, is right: “The image of Guantánamo Bay and the reality of Guantánamo Bay are completely different.” It is disappointing that so many embrace a contrived image. Reality for Guantánamo Bay is the daily professionalism of its staff, the humanity of its detention centers and the fair and transparent nature of the military commissions charged with trying war criminals. It is a reality that has been all but ignored or forgotten."
pro_8_3	Terrorists do not deserve luxury treatment.	Terrorists do not deserve luxury treatment. Many believe that due to the psychological separation between terrorists and the rest of society, whose doctrines they threaten, and evident pathological and intolerable nature of their actions they should not be treated the same as other citizens. To do so would be to justify their existence and coupling their crimes with those of robbery. Surely attempted mass murder and religious infanticide is grounds for treating detainees differently. Providing their is sufficient evidence that these inmates are terrorists and do pose an immediate threat to society then Guantanamo is not only justified but recommended. 
pro_8_4	Some human rights can be violated to preserve national security.	Some human rights can be violated to preserve national security. As these human rights are what define America and set it apart from nations it condemns it would seem prudent, to say the least, to shut the camp down unless sufficient and noticeable gains are made. However if gains are made then the existence of the camp is justified as, to use an analogy, the possession of a gun for self-defense in the most extreme circumstances is justified. 
pro_8_5	The number of prisoners at Guantanamo has been reduced.	The number of prisoners at Guantanamo has been reduced. 60% of the original 800 have been either freed or relocated in a slow attempt to change the status of the camp. The Bush administration is pursuing allegations of war crimes of at least 80 of the detainees which shows a positive and lawful move. 
pro_8_6	Closing Guantanamo would return detainees to abusive countries.	Closing Guantanamo would return detainees to abusive countries. Many of the detainees, at least 70, cannot be returned to their country of origin due to the regimes in place there. The result would be torture. Although the government is currently pushing through "memoranda of understanding" with these regimes -China, North African, this is little guarantee for their safety. 
con_8_1	Guantanamo detainees have been subjected to human rights abuses	 Guantanamo detainees have been subjected to human rights abuses Attorney General Lord Goldsmith, to name but one of several outspoken plutocrats, is vehemently opposed to the detention facility arguing that it is against human rights and what the American Constitution stands for. In the Canadian Foreign Affairs department review on tortuous nations specific mention was made of Guantanamo Bay, where, to drive the point home, the manual noted specific “US interrogation techniques,” including “forced nudity, isolation, and sleep deprivation.”
con_8_2	Conditions at Guantanamo Bay are harmful to detainee mental health	 Conditions at Guantanamo Bay are harmful to detainee mental health "Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights. Civil and Political Rights. Situation of detainees at Guantánamo Bay". United Nations Economic and Social Council. February 15, 2006 - "Mental health 71. Reports indicate that the treatment of detainees since their arrests, and the conditions of their confinement, have had profound effects on the mental health of many of them.103 The treatment and conditions include the capture and transfer of detainees to an undisclosed overseas location, sensory deprivation and other abusive treatment during transfer; detention in cages without proper sanitation and exposure to extreme temperatures; minimal exercise and hygiene; systematic use of coercive interrogation techniques; long periods of solitary confinement; cultural and religious harassment; denial of or severely delayed communication with family; and the uncertainty generated by the indeterminate nature of confinement and denial of access to independent tribunals.104 These conditions have led in some instances to serious mental illness, over 350 acts of self-harm in 2003 alone, individual and mass suicide attempts and widespread, prolonged hunger strikes.105 The severe mental health consequences are likely to be long term in many cases, creating health burdens on detainees and their families for years to come."
con_8_3	Guantanamo abuses include the desecration of the Koran	 Guantanamo abuses include the desecration of the Koran Marjorie Cohn. "Close Guantánamo Prison". TruthOut. May 23, 2005 - "The Red Cross documented 'credible information' that supports 'multiple' instances of disrespecting or mishandling the Koran there. Yesterday's Los Angeles Times reported that court records and transcripts contain 'dozens of accusations involving the Koran.' Allegations include having a guard dog carry the Koran in its mouth, guards scrawling obscenities inside Korans, kicking Korans across the floor, urinating on the Koran, ridiculing the Koran, walking on the Koran, and tearing off the cover and throwing the Koran into trash or dirty water."
headline_9	Image/relations: Does Guantanamo's existence aid US international relations?
pro_9_1	Most nations will not take Guantanamo detainees back	 Most nations will not take Guantanamo detainees back "Closing GITMO would be a mistake" My San Antonio. January 18, 2009 - "Closing down GITMO would create a public relations disaster that will expend far beyond the logistical problems of what to do with the 80 or so detainees slated for trial by military commissions, the 50 or so detainees that the U.S. wants to release but can find no nation in the world to take them, and the remaining 110 or so detainees deemed to pose a continuing terror threat to America or its allies."
pro_9_2	Guantanamo should not be closed to placate international opinion	 Guantanamo should not be closed to placate international opinion U.S. President George W. Bush says he pays no attention to polls and other measures of public opinion when formulating policy. This sticking to your laurels approach gains respect and even though people may disagree, at least you have faith in your convictions. Vice President Dick Cheney minimizes the impact of the Iraq war and the Guantanamo controversy on world opinion. "Does this hurt us from the standpoint of international opinion? I frankly don't think so," he said.[10]
pro_9_3	Closing Guantanamo and opening a new one elsewhere is a PR stunt	 Closing Guantanamo and opening a new one elsewhere is a PR stunt Jennifer Rubin. "Re: Obama Closes Gitmo". Commentary Magazine. January 22, 2009 - "The first question that comes to mind is: why go through all of this? Ah, but Guantamano has such a bad reputation. Yet it is largely based on misinformation about the actual treatment of detainees there. Supposedly we must put these very same people somewhere but we just don’t want to keep them at Guantanamo. At some level then we are inflating a PR problem — one which can be alleviated by creative people (rename the facility? build a new one in the parking lot?) — into a giant political and national security problem, especially for people living in the unlucky states that will play host to these very dangerous people."
pro_9_4	American public opinion does not support closing Guantanamo.	American public opinion does not support closing Guantanamo. A ABC/Washington Post poll - taken December 11-14, 2008 - found that 44% percent of Americans do not support closing Guantanamo, while 40% do.[11]
pro_9_5	Guantanamo Bay is supported by the families of 9/11 victims	 Guantanamo Bay is supported by the families of 9/11 victims "9/11 Families Outraged by Obama Call to Suspend Guantanamo War Crimes Trials". Fox News. January 21, 2009 - "Family members of people killed on September 11, 2001, and in other terror attacks say they are outraged by President Obama's draft order calling for the suspension of war crimes trials of prisoners being held at Guantanamo Bay."
con_9_1	Closing Guantanamo would renew America's image and leadership	 Closing Guantanamo would renew America's image and leadership A survey conducted by Pew Research Centre for People and the Press has found that American Reputation has suffered as a direct result of the war on terror and questionable policies created to combat terrorism. According to the survey, many Muslims polled view Americans as immoral. Surely this is not the image they want to be portraying when the US is trying to work with local Muslims. Of the Americans surveyed, 70 percent told Pew pollsters that they understand their country is disliked in many areas of the world. In the world and in the United States, there is a desire to see the United States change course in the war on terror, adopting perhaps a "softer" approach "winning the hearts and minds" of the Muslim world, and closing Guantanamo Bay has the potential to convey such a shift. It also can help make clear that, while the United States will continue to prosecute the war on terror, it must also preserve its principles. The world wants the United States to return to its role as a leader on human rights and democratic principles. Closing Guantanamo would provide a potent symbol of the United States' renewal in this important leadership role.
con_9_2	Closing Guantanamo helps uphold the rule of law internationally	 Closing Guantanamo helps uphold the rule of law internationally 
con_9_3	Guantanamo damages relations between the US and Muslim world	 Guantanamo damages relations between the US and Muslim world Somini Sengupta and Salman Masoods. "Guantanamo Comes to Define U.S. to Muslims". New York Times. May 21, 2005 - "For many Muslims, Guantánamo stands as a confirmation of the low regard in which they believe the United States holds them."
con_9_4	Guantanamo Bay makes it difficult for US allies to help war on terror	 Guantanamo Bay makes it difficult for US allies to help war on terror Many of the United State's allies do not support Guantanamo Bay. It becomes difficult for them to continue their support in the war on terror when they and their people condemn Guantanamo. By closing Guantanamo Bay, the United States would make it easier for its allies to support the war on terror.
con_9_5	US rejections of UN calls to close Guantanamo look very bad	 US rejections of UN calls to close Guantanamo look very bad. The US has rejected calls made by the United Nations in a 2006 report to close Guantanamo bay "immediately". Rejecting the United Nations in this way just confirms the growing international impression that the United State disregards international rules and norms.
