title	Israeli military assault in Gaza
question	Was Israel's 2008/2009 military bombing and invasion of Gaza justified?
headline_1	Peace process: Did Israel's assault improve or worsen the peace process?
pro_1_1	Defeating Hamas is key to long-term Israeli/Palestinian solution	 Defeating Hamas is key to long-term Israeli/Palestinian solution "Israel's Gaza Defense". Wall Street Journal. December 29th, 2008 - "as Michael Oren and Yossi Klein Halevi explain, the Israeli public isn't about to make territorial concessions on the West Bank or the Golan Heights if Gaza is allowed to become a neighboring terrorist state that can launch attacks with impunity. Israel has already had a bad enough experience letting that happen with Hezbollah in Southern Lebanon. Meanwhile, the stronger Hamas becomes, the more resistance Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas will face to making any concessions to Israel."
pro_1_2	Israeli attacks may force Hamas to accept a more durable ceasefire	 Israeli attacks may force Hamas to accept a more durable ceasefire Tony Karon. "Israel Invades Gaza, Hoping to Pummel Hamas into a Truce". Time. January 3, 2008 - "Unlike the botched invasion of Lebanon in 2006, when Israel set itself the unattainable goal of eliminating the military capability of Hizballah, this time Barak and Olmert have made clear that their objective is not to wipe out Hamas, but instead to force the radical group to accept a durable cease-fire on Israel's terms."
pro_1_3	Israel need not work with the illegitimate Hamas regime	 Israel need not work with the illegitimate Hamas regime "Defending Israel's Operations in Gaza". Aisha - "Isn't Hamas the democratically-elected government in Gaza? Why is Israel trying to overthrow it? Hamas promotes itself as the legitimate power in Gaza. In reality, Hamas is at its core a terrorist organization that refuses to renounce violence or recognize Israel's right to exist. Hamas is listed as a terrorist organization by the United States and the European Union. [...] Hamas came to power in Gaza through a violent coup against the Palestinian Authority government. [...] Since Hamas refuses to live in peace with Israel, the Israeli government has no choice but to seek Hamas' replacement."  
con_1_1	Israeli attacks help to legitimize Hamas' regime.	Israeli attacks help to legitimize Hamas' regime.
con_1_2	Israeli attacks in Gaza undermine peace process, long-term security	 Israeli attacks in Gaza undermine peace process, long-term security The long-term security of Israel rests in a stable peace agreement with the Palestinians. To the extent that Israel's large scale assault on Gaza eliminated the hopes of such an agreement, the attacks worsened Israel's long-term security.
con_1_3	Israeli strikes ignore history; no military solution with Palestinians	 Israeli strikes ignore history; no military solution with Palestinians "Israel's Gaza assault wastes lives without changing anything". The Daily Star. December 29, 2008 - "For the Israelis, once they have exercised this latest spasm of gratuitous bloodletting, there will be yet another opportunity to accept the oft-proved impossibility of a military solution. The Palestinian people will not be battered into submission, no amount of air strikes will make the core issues in the moribund peace process go away, and all of the same difficult decisions will still be waiting when the dust settles."
con_1_4	Hamas was democratically elected; Israel must make peace with them	 Hamas was democratically elected; Israel must make peace with them If Hamas was an authoritarian regime, Israel could possible attempt to get rid of it and make peace with the Palestinians in Gaza separately. But, because Hamas was democratically elected, any efforts by Israel to destroy them will be seen in Gaza as an effort to destroy the Palestinians and their democratic will. This would not enable any long-term peace with the Palestinians. Therefore, a long-term peace depends on working with Hamas, rather than attempting to destroy them.
headline_2	Self-defense: Were Israeli strikes a legitimate means of self-defense?
pro_2_1	Israel's assault on Gaza was an act of self-defense	 Israel's assault on Gaza was an act of self-defense President-elect Barack Obama - "If somebody was sending rockets into my house where my two daughters sleep at night, I would do everything to stop that, and would expect Israel to do the same thing."[1]
pro_2_2	Israel's assault in Gaza was an act of last resort	 Israel's assault in Gaza was an act of last resort "JCPA Supports Israel’s Efforts to Stop Gaza Rocket Attacks". Jewish Council for Public Affairs, Press Release. December 29, 2008 - "Israel has taken great lengths to avoid this sort of escalation, but was left with no other way to ensure that its civilians would not have to live in fear of rocket fire. Just a few days ago, outgoing Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert made an appeal on the Arab television station Al-Arabiya asking Gaza residents to stop the firing of rockets and mortar shells so that a military response could be avoided." 
pro_2_3	Military strikes in Gaza re-establish Israeli deterrence	 Military strikes in Gaza re-establish Israeli deterrence Michael B. Oren and Yossi Klein Halevi. "Palestinians Need Israel to Win". Wall Street Journal. December 29, 2008 - "Gaza is the test case. Much more is at stake than merely the military outcome of Israel's operation. The issue, rather, is Israel's ability to restore its deterrence power and uphold the principle that its citizens cannot be targeted with impunity."
pro_2_4	Israel cannot be safe with a terrorist regime in Gaza	 Israel cannot be safe with a terrorist regime in Gaza David Harris, Executive Director for the American Jewish Committee. "Israel has shown surprising patience with Hamas". Freep. January 6, 2009 - "Israel could not tolerate a terrorist regime on its border that was launching repeated rocket and mortar attacks against Israeli towns and villages."
pro_2_5	Israel's strikes have severely damaged Hamas, secured Israel	 Israel's strikes have severely damaged Hamas, secured Israel "Israel's Gaza Defense". Wall Street Journal. December 29th, 2008 - "the Israeli strikes have hit their targets precisely enough to do significant damage to Hamas forces -- both to its leadership and, on Sunday, to the tunnels from Gaza to Egypt that Hamas uses to smuggle in weapons and build its growing army."
pro_2_6	Israel has a right to determine how best to uphold its security.	Israel has a right to determine how best to uphold its security. While there can be debate as to whether Israel's Gaza assault achieved its objectives of securing the nation overall, there can be no debate that Israel has the right to defend itself as well as the right to determine how best to do so. While it is easy for countries and foreigners to state their opinions about Israel's security interests and how its actions may or may not fullfill them, Israel's right to make that judgement for itself must be respected. In addition, it is probably true that only Israelis themselves can fully understand their own interests, take heart of direct threats to their lives, and develop appropriate security imperatives. 
pro_2_7	Israeli assault on Hamas upholds liberty globally	 Israeli assault on Hamas upholds liberty globally Benjamin Netanyahu. "Militant Islam Threatens Us All". Wall Street Journal. January 7, 2009: "We fight to defend ourselves, but in so doing we are also fighting a fanatical ideology that seeks to reverse the course of history and throw the civilized world back into a new dark age. The struggle between militant Islam and modernity -- whether fought in Afghanistan, Iraq, India or Gaza -- will decide our common future. It is a battle we cannot afford to lose."
con_2_1	Israel's Gaza assault was aggression not self-defense under i-law	  Israel's Gaza assault was "aggression" not "self-defense" under i-law "Israel’s bombardment of Gaza is not self-defence – it’s a war crime". Times Online. January 11, 2009 - "ISRAEL has sought to justify its military attacks on Gaza by stating that it amounts to an act of “self-defence” as recognised by Article 51, United Nations Charter. We categorically reject this contention. [...] The rocket attacks on Israel by Hamas deplorable as they are, do not, in terms of scale and effect amount to an armed attack entitling Israel to rely on self-defence. Under international law self-defence is an act of last resort and is subject to the customary rules of proportionality and necessity. [...] The killing of almost 800 Palestinians, mostly civilians, and more than 3,000 injuries, accompanied by the destruction of schools, mosques, houses, UN compounds and government buildings, which Israel has a responsibility to protect under the Fourth Geneva Convention, is not commensurate to the deaths caused by Hamas rocket fire. [...] Israel’s actions amount to aggression, not self-defence, not least because its assault on Gaza was unnecessary. Israel could have agreed to renew the truce with Hamas." 
con_2_2	Israel's attack of Gaza was not an act of last resort	 Israel's attack of Gaza was not an act of last resort  Larry Derfner. "Rattling The Cage: Israel should get out of Gaza now". The Jerusalem Post. January 8, 2009 - "[Israel] should try to negotiate a truce with Hamas based on this principle: They stop firing rockets at Israel in return for our lifting of the siege on Gaza. This is the deal Hamas offered us before we started Operation Cast Lead, and we should have taken it then and seen how it had gone before resorting to military force."
con_2_3	Israeli attacks on Gaza feed extremist resentment and terrorism	 Israeli attacks on Gaza feed extremist resentment and terrorism Nicholas Kristoff. "The Gaza Boomerang". New York Times. January 7, 2009 - "the excessive Israeli ground assault in Gaza is likely to create more terrorists in the long run."
con_2_4	Israeli attacks embolden extremists on both sides in cycle of violence	 Israeli attacks embolden extremists on both sides in cycle of violence Nicholas Kristoff. "The Gaza Boomerang". New York Times. January 7, 2009 - "What we’re seeing in the Middle East is the Boomerang Syndrome. Arab terrorism built support for right-wing Israeli politicians, who took harsh actions against Palestinians, who responded with more terrorism, and so on. Extremists on each side sustain the other, and the excessive Israeli ground assault in Gaza is likely to create more terrorists in the long run."
con_2_5	Israel cannot destroy Hamas and end rocket attacks by force	 Israel cannot destroy Hamas and end rocket attacks by force "Israel Strikes". Washington Post. 28 Dec. 2008 - "Israel cannot stop rocket attacks by military action alone; eventually a political deal will be needed."
con_2_6	Israeli assault may actually increase support for Hamas	 Israeli assault may actually increase support for Hamas Haaretz Newspaper: "In all likelihood, the current war will not lead to an Israeli victory. In such a case, Israel will have to forget about its objective of capturing the Gaza Strip. Such an outcome will help to consolidate the legitimacy of the Hamas movement, and all the efforts of Israel to eliminate that fundamental pillar of resistance will produce the reverse result. In such a scenario, Israel will be compelled to sign a ceasefire agreement."
con_2_7	Hamas will easily rebuild from damage inflicted by Israel	 Hamas will easily rebuild from damage inflicted by Israel "Israel must withdraw from Gaza". Guardian. January 4, 2009: "While Hamas's offensive capacities will be blunted for a while, the likelihood, as with Hezbollah after Lebanon in 2006, is that it will quickly rebuild its military strength. Indeed, the assassinations of its leaders by Israel over the years - and the raids on its weapons workshops - did little to limit its rise to power."
headline_3	Proportionality: Were Israeli strikes proportional to the Hamas attacks?
pro_3_1	Gaza assault rightly preempts Hamas' existential threat to Israel	 Gaza assault rightly preempts Hamas' existential threat to Israel Hamas has stated that its objective is to destroy Israel. Such an existential threat goes beyond simply Hamas' rocket attacks, as it portends much more destructive attacks in the future. This justifies defensive attacks from Israel that go beyond responding merely to the Hamas rockets, and even justifies Israeli efforts to fully demobilize or destroy Hamas. 
pro_3_2	Israeli assault was proportional to years of Hamas rocket terrorism	 Israeli assault was proportional to years of Hamas rocket terrorism "Israel's Gaza Defense". Wall Street Journal. December 29th, 2008 - "The 250,000 Israelis in the southern part of the country live under constant threat, often in bomb shelters, and the economy has suffered. Yet the world's media seem to pay attention only when Israel responds to that Hamas barrage."
pro_3_3	Israeli strikes were rightly measured to disable Hamas rocket attacks	 Israeli strikes were rightly measured to disable Hamas rocket attacks "National Post Editorial Board: Why Israel can't afford to hold back". National Post. December 31, 2008 - "To be sure, Israel’s reaction to the constant deluge of missile fire from Gaza has been harsh, but necessarily so. Moreover, now that Israel has begun its retaliation it would be unwise to halt before Hamas is permanently incapacitated."
pro_3_4	Israel need not be proportional against Hamas terrorist attacks	 Israel need not be "proportional" against Hamas terrorist attacks Alan Dershowitz. "Israel's Policy Is Perfectly 'Proportionate'". Wall Street Journal. January 2, 2009 - "The claim that Israel has violated the principle of proportionality -- by killing more Hamas terrorists than the number of Israeli civilians killed by Hamas rockets -- is absurd. First, there is no legal equivalence between the deliberate killing of innocent civilians and the deliberate killings of Hamas combatants. Under the laws of war, any number of combatants can be killed to prevent the killing of even one innocent civilian."
pro_3_5	Would a proportional response from Israel include rocket attacks?	 Would a proportional response from Israel include rocket attacks? If Israel were to be "proportional", would this require that it launch rocket attacks back against Gazan civilians? Obviously not, and this is where the logic of proportionality against terrorist attacks makes little sense.
pro_3_6	Israel is legitimate in using full force to win war on Hamas	 Israel is legitimate in using full force to win war on Hamas Israel should not have to restrain itself in what is, on Hamas' own terms, an existential war. Provoked by Hamas, Israel has every right to wage a disproportionate and overwhelming response. 
pro_3_7	Proportional response from Israel only prolongs conflict	 Proportional response from Israel only prolongs conflict "In defense of Israel's 'disproportionate' response in Gaza". Christian Science Monitor. January 8, 2009: "The notion of "proportional" responses is further baffling in that such occurrences actually prolong conflicts."
pro_3_8	Hamas is not a victim of excessive Israeli force	 Hamas is not a "victim" of "excessive" Israeli force "Defending Israel's Operations in Gaza". Aisha - "[...]Given the Palestinian fire power and their willingness to use it, it is clear that the charge of "excessive force" is simply the latest incarnation of the Palestinian strategy of 'victimhood.' Terror groups fire indiscriminately at innocent Israelis and then complain of excessive or disproportionate force when Israel fires back. But according to internationally accepted laws of war, Israel is permitted to respond with the force necessary to end the conflict."
con_3_1	Israel's response was disproportionate to the provocation by Hamas	 Israel's response was disproportionate to the provocation by Hamas Nicholas Kristoff. "The Gaza Boomerang". New York Times. January 7, 2009 - "Israel’s right to do something doesn’t mean it has the right to do anything. Since the shelling from Gaza started in 2001, 20 Israeli civilians have been killed by rockets or mortars, according to a tabulation by Israeli human rights groups. That doesn’t justify an all-out ground invasion that has killed more than 660 people (it’s difficult to know how many are militants and how many are civilians)."
con_3_2	Israel's attack of Gaza was about approaching elections	 Israel's attack of Gaza was about approaching elections Katherine Butler. "Why Did Israel Attack Gaza?". The Independent. December 29th, 2008 - "Are Israeli domestic politics a factor? Very much so. Israel is preparing for general elections on 10 February. The prospect of a return to power by the hawk Benjamin Netanyahu, leader of the right-wing Likud party, promising tough action against Hamas, has hardened the positions of Israel's more moderate political leaders."[2]
con_3_3	Israel's severe response damages nation's moral stature.	Israel's severe response damages nation's moral stature. Israel ruthless attack on Gaza and the massive civilian casualties it has inflicted has severely damaged the nation's moral stature in the world. This moral deficit will cause problems for Israel in its future engagements in the world.
headline_4	Civilians: Who is in the right in regards to civilian casualties?
pro_4_1	Israeli precision strikes sought to minimize civilian deaths	 Israeli precision strikes sought to minimize civilian deaths Benjamin Netanyahu. "Militant Islam Threatens Us All". Wall Street Journal. January 7, 2009 - "In launching precision strikes against Hamas rocket launchers, headquarters, weapons depots, smuggling tunnels and training camps, Israel is trying to minimize civilian casualties."
pro_4_2	Israel strikes military not civilians targets, unlike Hamas	 Israel strikes military not civilians targets, unlike Hamas Al Jazeera interview of Gary Grant on January 5th, 2009 - "[Al Jazeera]: Surely the killing of civilians is against international law and the targeting of populated areas where you know that civilians are going to die is against international law. [...] [Gary Grant]: Even if you target your action at military sites, civilians are inevitably going to get killed...these need to be contrasted with the actions of Hamas where every single rocket is designed to attack civilian populations, so every single act of Hamas in firing these rockets is clearly an illegal act without any legal justification."[3]
pro_4_3	Civilians were killed because Hamas locates rockets amid civilians	 Civilians were killed because Hamas locates rockets amid civilians "Israel's Gaza Defense". Wall Street Journal. December 29th, 2008 - "Israel's air assault has resulted in more Palestinian casualties, but that is in part because Hamas deliberately locates its security forces in residential neighborhoods. This is intended both to deter Israel from attacking in the first place as well as to turn world opinion against the Jewish state when it does attack. By all accounts, however, the Israeli strikes have hit their targets precisely enough to do significant damage to Hamas forces -- both to its leadership and, on Sunday, to the tunnels from Gaza to Egypt that Hamas uses to smuggle in weapons and build its growing army." 
pro_4_4	Israel took action to minimize humanitarian crisis in Gaza	 Israel took action to minimize humanitarian crisis in Gaza Steve Hunegs. "Editorial counterpoint: The justice of Israel's actions". Star Tribune. January 6, 2009 - "Before this campaign, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert appeared on the Arab media outlet Al-Arabiya to address Gaza civilians about the dangers of Hamas rocket fire from the Gaza strip. Israel has telephoned Gazans to warn them of impending attacks in their neighborhoods. Humanitarian aid continues to reach Gazans. In fact, during the past six months, Israel has facilitated more than 14,500 truckloads of humanitarian assistance, including more than 185,000 tons of supplies and 39 million liters of fuel. Furthermore, there have been more than 4,130 medical evacuations."
pro_4_5	Israel put troops in harms way to minimize civilian casualties	 Israel put troops in harms way to minimize civilian casualties Benjamin Netanyahu. "Militant Islam Threatens Us All". Wall Street Journal. January 7, 2009: "To further root out Hamas terrorists in a way that minimizes Palestinian civilian casualties, Israel's army is now engaged in a ground operation that places its soldiers in great peril. Carpet-bombing of Palestinian cities is not an option that any Israeli leader will entertain."
pro_4_6	Israel has fewer deaths because of warning systems and hospitals	 Israel has fewer deaths because of warning systems and hospitals Israel invests significantly more in stable buildings that do not crumble when subjected a blast, in warning systems for incoming rockets, and invests in an extensive and modern network of hospitals and emergency response teams. This, and the fact that Israel does not use civilians as shields for its weapons, helps lower the number of civilian casualties as compared to in Gaza. 
pro_4_7	Israel had to respond to public will and attack Gaza	 Israel had to respond to public will and attack Gaza "Gaza: the rights and wrongs". Economist. December 30th, 2008 - "few governments facing an election, as Israel’s is, would let their towns be peppered every day with rockets, no matter how ineffective."
con_4_1	Israel killed an unacceptable number of civilians in Gaza	 Israel killed an unacceptable number of civilians in Gaza Javier Solana, chief of foreign policy for the European Union, said in late December 2008, "the current Israeli strikes are inflicting an unacceptable toll on Palestinian civilians."[4]
con_4_2	Israel killed many times more civilians than Hamas	 Israel killed many times more civilians than Hamas Rashid Khalidi. "What You Don’t Know About Gaza". New York Times. January 7, 2009 - "The targeting of civilians, whether by Hamas or by Israel, is potentially a war crime. Every human life is precious. But the numbers speak for themselves: Nearly 700 Palestinians, most of them civilians, have been killed since the conflict broke out at the end of last year. In contrast, there have been around a dozen Israelis killed, many of them soldiers."
con_4_3	Israel's right to self-defense does not justify mass murder	 Israel's right to self-defense does not justify mass murder Ilan Pappe. "Israel's righteous fury and its victims in Gaza". The Electronic Intifada. January 2, 2009 - "Israel is engulfed once more with righteous fury that translates into destructive policies in the Gaza Strip. This appalling self-justification for the inhumanity and impunity is not just annoying, it is a subject worth dwelling on, if one wants to understand the international immunity for the massacre that rages on in Gaza."
con_4_4	Precision Israel attacks were never possible in crowded Gaza	 Precision Israel attacks were never possible in crowded Gaza Akiva Eldar wrote in Haaretz: "The tremendous population density in the Gaza Strip does not allow a 'surgical operation' over an extended period that would minimize damage to civilian populations. The difficult images from the Strip will soon replace those of the damage inflicted by Qassam rockets in the western Negev. The scale of losses, which works in 'favor' of the Palestinians, will return Israel to the role of Goliath."[5]
con_4_5	Israel's use of white phosphorous in Gaza was a humanitarian crime.	Israel's use of white phosphorous in Gaza was a humanitarian crime. The use of white phosphorous by Israel to shield its military movements in Gaza was a humanitarian crime, as the chemical causes serious health problems to civilians that inhale it. And, by all accounts, the chemical was inhaled by many Gazan civilians. 
con_4_6	Israel caused civilian suffering to create opposition to Hamas	 Israel caused civilian suffering to create opposition to Hamas Nicholas Kristoff. "The Gaza Boomerang". New York Times. January 7, 2009 - "Israel’s strategy has been to make ordinary Palestinians suffer in hopes of creating ill will toward Hamas. That’s why, beginning in 2007, Israel cut back fuel shipments for Gaza utilities — and why today, in the aftermath of the bombings, 800,000 Gaza residents lack running water, Ms. Bashi said. [...] “The Israeli policy on Gaza has been marketed as a policy against Hamas, but in reality it’s a policy against a million-and-a-half people in Gaza,” she said."
con_4_7	Israel strikes were intended to further dispirit Palestinians	 Israel strikes were intended to further dispirit Palestinians Rashid Khalidi. "What You Don’t Know About Gaza". New York Times. January 7, 2009 - "This war on the people of Gaza isn’t really about rockets. Nor is it about 'restoring Israel’s deterrence,' as the Israeli press might have you believe. Far more revealing are the words of Moshe Yaalon, then the Israeli Defense Forces chief of staff, in 2002: 'The Palestinians must be made to understand in the deepest recesses of their consciousness that they are a defeated people.'"
con_4_8	Undiscriminating rockets are only tools for Gazans to oppose Israel	 Undiscriminating rockets are only tools for Gazans to oppose Israel "Proportional to what?". Economist. December 30th, 2008 - "Israel says that intent is what matters: it says it tries to avoid civilian deaths, whereas Hamas deliberately seeks to kill Israeli civilians with its rockets, relatively ineffective as they may be. Hamas responds [...] as the disproportionately weaker party, Palestinians must use the crude means at their disposal to free their lands from Israeli occupation"
con_4_9	All Israelis serve in military; Hamas rockets have military target.	All Israelis serve in military; Hamas rockets have military target. Many say that Hamas' rocket attacks indiscriminately target Israeli citizens. Yet, all citizens in Israel must serve in the military. In a sense, this means that the entire Israeli population is a legitimate military target for Hamas.[6]
headline_5	Ceasefire: Is Hamas to blame for breaking the cease-fire?
pro_5_1	Hamas was never committed to ceasefire, consistently violating it	 Hamas was never committed to ceasefire, consistently violating it Hamas consistently violated the terms of the ceasefire between Gaza and Israel, launching 6,500 rockets fairly consistently throughout the period of the ceasefire. 
pro_5_2	Hamas was first to escalate conflict following end of ceasefire	 Hamas was first to escalate conflict following end of ceasefire Whoever is to blame for allowing the ceasefire to expire on December 19th, 2008, Hamas was first to actually escalate the conflict with a systematic increase in rocket attacks to a magnitude of hundreds of rockets fired daily in late December.  
pro_5_3	Hamas invited invasion by refusing to extend the ceasefire	 Hamas invited invasion by refusing to extend the ceasefire "Israel Strikes". Washington Post. 28 Dec. 2008 - "[Hamas] invited the conflict by ending a six-month-old ceasefire."
con_5_1	Israel was never committed to ceasefire, consistently violating it	Israel was never committed to ceasefire, consistently violating it Isreal has killed 50 civilians in the so-called ceasefire period. 
con_5_2	Israeli blockade, despite Hamas compliance, unraveled ceasefire	 Israeli blockade, despite Hamas compliance, unraveled ceasefire. Katherine Butler. "Why Did Israel Attack Gaza?". The Independent. December 29th, 2008 - "Why did the ceasefire collapse? Hamas had offered to renew the ceasefire if Israel reopened Gaza's border crossings. The strip had been sealed by Israel in an economic siege aimed at toppling Hamas. The blockade has brought the territory near economic collapse."
con_5_3	Israel air strikes in November, 2008 unraveled the ceasefire	 Israel air strikes in November, 2008 unraveled the ceasefire Rashid Khalidi. "What You Don’t Know About Gaza". New York Times. January 7, 2009 - "The cease-fire broke down when Israeli forces launched major air and ground attacks in early November; six Hamas operatives were reported killed."
headline_6	Blame for conflict: Who is to blame as the primary cause of the conflict?
pro_6_1	Hamas caused blockade/conflict by adopting terrorism	 Hamas caused blockade/conflict by adopting terrorism Ephraim Sneh. "Why Israel Is Bombing Gaza". Washington Post. January 1, 2009 - "In January 2006, rule over Gaza passed to the Hamas government under Ismail Haniyeh. Instead of bringing investors to Gaza, the Hamas government brought the guerrilla-warfare trainers of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard. [...] In June 2007, in a brutal and bloody military coup, Hamas took control of Gaza and soon killed or chased out the leaders of President Mahmoud Abbas's Fatah movement. Gaza became nothing less than a military base for Iran. [...] The Hamas takeover is what in effect locked the gates of Gaza and forced its residents to suffer."
pro_6_2	Palestinians, not Israeli blockade, are to blame for failed Gaza economy	 Palestinians, not Israeli blockade, are to blame for failed Gaza economy "Was Hamas Provoked?". International Jewish News. January 8, 2009 - "Israel withdrew from the Gaza Strip in August, 2005. Not only did Israel not attempt to defeat economic recovery in Gaza, Israel went out of her way to give it an initial boost. Israel left behind an extensive network of greenhouses. Palestinians in Gaza destroyed them. Mark that as the first step in Gaza’s descent into economic crisis. Palestinian malice was so pure, its rage so blind, its self-interest so irrelevant, that it destroyed a first basis of its economic flowering."
pro_6_3	Blockade was justly designed to cut off arm imports to Gaza	 Blockade was justly designed to cut off arm imports to Gaza "Was Hamas Provoked?". International Jewish News. January 8, 2009 - "Israeli control of Gaza’s borders was a response to Hamas’ exploitation of Israel’s withdrawal from Gaza to turn it into an armed, Islamic state dedicated to the destruction of Israel above all else, even its own economy. Hamas was not provoked. Quite the contrary. Hamas’ arms smuggling was the provocation. Then, on top of this provocation, Hamas fired rockets indiscriminately into Israel. The idea that Hamas was provoked leapfrogs the facts."
pro_6_4	Hamas could have ended blockade by simply recognizing Israel	 Hamas could have ended blockade by simply recognizing Israel "Israel gambles in Gaza". USA Today. December 30, 2008 - "Hamas says its missile fire is justified. It contends that Israel is behaving like a capricious jailer to Gaza's Palestinians. Besides controlling air and sea access, Israel won't open border crossings into Israel with any consistency — as a result, Palestinians don't have access to the regular trade and jobs that can make their economy viable. Palestinians in Gaza live in dire and growing poverty. All of that is true, but Hamas could change the situation in an instant simply by credibly recognizing Israel's right to exist."
pro_6_5	Israel is not an occupier and responsible for Gazans	 Israel is not an "occupier" and responsible for Gazans Shlomo Dror, spokesman for Israel's coordinator of government activities in the territories, said in 2007, "We regarded the area as the seed of a Palestinian state. But now Hamas rules there, we disengaged, and now we have nothing to do with it. [...] with the abolition of the military government in Gaza and in light of the current security situation, the State of Israel bears no responsibility to take care of the various interests of Gaza residents."[7]
pro_6_6	Blockade was legitimate defense, despite occupier responsibility	 Blockade was legitimate defense, despite "occupier responsibility" Ordinarily, an "occupying power" does have a responsibility to the welfare of those it is "occupying". Yet, Israel also has the right to defend itself, and, in the case of Gaza, the blockade was the most reasonable form of such defense. 
con_6_1	Israel caused conflict by terrorizing Gaza with blockade	 Israel caused conflict by terrorizing Gaza with blockade Rashid Khalidi. "What You Don’t Know About Gaza". New York Times. January 7, 2009 - "As the [de facto] occupying power, Israel has the responsibility under the Fourth Geneva Convention to see to the welfare of the civilian population of the Gaza Strip. [...] Israel’s blockade of the strip, with the support of the United States and the European Union, has grown increasingly stringent since Hamas won the Palestinian Legislative Council elections in January 2006. Fuel, electricity, imports, exports and the movement of people in and out of the Strip have been slowly choked off, leading to life-threatening problems of sanitation, health, water supply and transportation. [...] The blockade has subjected many to unemployment, penury and malnutrition. This amounts to the collective punishment — with the tacit support of the United States — of a civilian population for exercising its democratic rights."
con_6_2	Israel indiscriminately targeted Gazan civilians in blockade.	Israel indiscriminately targeted Gazan civilians in blockade. According to Hebrew University international law expert Yuval Shani, "It is my opinion that in this situation, and given the question marks regarding Israel's status in Gaza and Gaza's long-standing dependency on Israel, cutting off its water and electricity supplies would be equivalent to a direct attack on a civilian target, especially given that the motive for doing so is one of collective punishment, which is, in itself, a problematic motive."[8]
con_6_3	Israel failed its responsibilities as an occupier of Gaza	 Israel failed its responsibilities as an occupier of Gaza By controlling Gaza's borders, trade, electricity and water, Israel has remained an "occupying" force over Gaza. By international law, this requires that Israel uphold the humanitarian interests of Gazans. The blockade clearly violated this obligation and was a major cause of the conflict.
headline_7	Iran: Were Israel's Gaza strikes valuable in its efforts to contain Iran?
pro_7_1	Israeli offensive in Gaza combats Hamas-Iran ties	 Israeli offensive in Gaza combats Hamas-Iran ties. "Israel's Gaza Defense". Wall Street Journal. December 29th, 2008 - "Egypt's Foreign Minister, Ahmed Abul Gheit, assailed Israel's air strikes but also held Hamas responsible. They understand that Hamas, like Hezbollah, is increasingly allied with Iran and its goals for fomenting regional instability."
pro_7_2	Israel has the resolve to address Hamas AND Iran	 Israel has the resolve to address Hamas AND Iran "Israel & Gaza: Poor Hamas? No!". Pittsburgh Tribune. December 30, 2008 - Some see the Hamas attacks as a way to divert Israel's attention from the terrorists' moneybags buddy Iran, whose burgeoning nuclear designs increasingly have been coming into Israel's cross hairs. But that would be a serious underestimation of Israel's resolve."
con_7_1	Attacking Gaza distracts Israel from Iranian threat	 Attacking Gaza distracts Israel from Iranian threat Israel's main strategic threat is Iran. By attacking Gaza, Israel distracted itself from containing the Iranian threat. Furthermore, Israel's attack has helped bolster Iran's case in the region against Israel. 
con_7_2	Gaza assault bolsters Iran's radical message against Israel	 Gaza assault bolsters Iran's radical message against Israel "Divided on Gaza.". Washington Post. December 30, 2008: "Israel's offensive gives Iran and its allies a way to pressure Egypt, Jordan and other Arab "moderates." Like the Lebanon war of 2006, Israel's battle with Hamas in Gaza is producing a schism among Muslim states. Iran and its ally Hezbollah in Lebanon have joined Hamas's Damascus-based leadership in calling for a new intifada, or uprising, against Israel -- and also against the governments of Egypt and Jordan, which are accused of silently supporting Israel's air attacks." 
