title	International Criminal Court
question	What are the pros and cons of the ICC? Should the US and other countries join?
headline_1	Stability: Is the ICC a valuable tool in ensuring stability?
pro_1_1	Cooperation in ICC and rule of law is best overall for stability	 Cooperation in ICC and rule of law is best overall for stability Dennis Kucinich. "The US Administration and the ICC". Common Dreams. 9 Dec. 2004 - "There are many in our United States government who do understand that Peace can only be obtained through international cooperation and adherence by all nations to high principles. We know that, as a matter of the survival of the human race, unilateralism must yield to multilateralism. [...] Each of us has the responsibility and the gift to work within our sphere to construct a world where all may survive and thrive in peace and justice. [...] We must work tirelessly for ratification or accession to the Rome Statute."
pro_1_2	ICC can balance need for justice and practical peace	 ICC can balance need for justice and practical peace "Justice or expediency in Sudan?; The International Criminal Court". The Economist. 19 July 2008 - "Only this week Indonesia and Timor-Leste published a report blaming the Indonesian army for the atrocities committed in the former East Timor. But, to keep the peace, there is no hint of bringing anyone to trial. None of the big shots who oversaw apartheid ever faced serious punishment. Till recently, dictators who ordered thousands of "disappearances" in Latin America's dirty wars were allowed to slip into easeful retirement. Terrorists in Northern Ireland and Palestine have been forgiven their crimes in return for desisting. Such decisions are never easy: just ask the victims. But the hunger for peace will occasionally trump the appetite for justice if forgiveness and amnesty are the only way to end wars or move societies from dictatorship to democracy [...] Where does that leave the high hopes that accompanied the creation of the ICC ten years ago? Still strong, we believe. Examples of justice denied do not mean that this noble enterprise is doomed to fail [...] A court on its own cannot bring either peace or justice."
pro_1_3	UN SC can block ICC prosecutions for security reasons	 UN SC can block ICC prosecutions for security reasons Benjamin B. Ferencz, J.D. Harvard 1943 and a Former Nuremberg War Crimes Prosecutor. "Response to Henry Kissinger's essay 'The Pitfalls of Universal Jurisdiction'." 2 July 2001 - "The Security Council can block prosecutions indefinitely if needed for reconciliation or peace." 
pro_1_4	ICC justice offers more lasting peace than ad hoc courts	 ICC justice offers more lasting peace than ad hoc courts Amnesty International. The International Criminal Court, Fact Sheet - "The ICC ensures that those who commit serious human rights violations are held accountable. Justice helps promote lasting peace, enables victims to rebuild their lives and sends a strong message that perpetrators of serious international crimes will not go unpunished."
pro_1_5	ICC needed for new global problems	 ICC needed for new global problems Benjamin B. Ferencz, J.D. Harvard 1943 and a Former Nuremberg War Crimes Prosecutor. "Response to Henry Kissinger's essay 'The Pitfalls of Universal Jurisdiction'." 2 July 2001 - "Opponents of the ICC refuse to recognize that in today's interdependent world all major problems are global and require global solutions. Binding international rules have become necessary and are accepted universally to protect the common interest. The prevention of massive crimes against humanity deserves equal protection of universal law."  
con_1_1	Case-by-case approach is superior to ICC in crises	 Case-by-case approach is superior to ICC in crises John R. Bolton. "The United States and the International Criminal Court". Remarks to the Federalist Society. 14 Nov. 2002 - "it is by no means clear that "justice" as defined by the Court and Prosecutor is always consistent with the attainable political resolution of serious political and military disputes. It may be, or it may not be. Human conflict teaches that, much to the dismay of moralists and legal theoreticians, mortal policy makers often must make tradeoffs among inconsistent objectives. This can be a painful and unpleasant realization, confronting us as it does with the irritating facts of human complexity, contradiction, and imperfection [...] Accumulated experience strongly favors a case-by-case approach, politically and legally, rather than the inevitable resort to adjudication. Circumstances differ, and circumstances matter. Atrocities, whether in international wars or in domestic contexts, are by definition uniquely horrible in their own times and places."
con_1_2	ICC may interfere with the work of the UN Security Council	 ICC may interfere with the work of the UN Security Council John R. Bolton. "The United States and the International Criminal Court". Remarks to the Federalist Society. 14 Nov. 2002 - "Under the UN Charter, the Security Council has primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. The ICC’s efforts could easily conflict with the Council’s work. Indeed, the Statute of Rome substantially minimized the Security Council’s role in ICC affairs. While the Security Council may refer matters to the ICC, or order it to refrain from commencing or proceeding with an investigation or prosecution , the Council is precluded from a meaningful role in the ICC’s work. In requiring an affirmative Council vote to stop a case, the Statute shifts the balance of authority from the Council to the ICC."
con_1_3	ICC causes tyrants to cling to power to avoid prosecution	 ICC causes tyrants to cling to power to avoid prosecution "U.S. Policy Regarding the International Criminal Court". Congressional Research Service. 29 Aug. 2006 - "[Some] argue that the perception of U.S. commitment to the rule of law has little effect on countries where human rights abuses are most rampant. Despots like Cambodia’s Pol Pot or Iraq’s Saddam Hussein have not weighed possible future legal ramifications before committing massive crimes.98 Under this view, the establishment of the ICC might have the unintended effect of hardening the resolve of ruthless tyrants who may feel they have nothing to gain by giving up their power."
con_1_4	ICC rules of war make war more tolerable and likely	 ICC rules of war make war more tolerable and likely Gary T. Dempsey. "Reasonable Doubt: The Case Against the Proposed International Criminal Court". CATO Institute. 16 July 1998 - "there is no evidence that holding war crimes trials reduces the number of threats to international peace and security. If anything, the opposite is true: making war less atrocious makes it more likely. The creation of war crimes courts, he concludes, seems really 'to have been aimed at making lawyers the 'guardians' of a violent society, in which war is all right as long as it is played by rules to which the concerned lawyers can agree."
headline_2	War crimes: Does the ICC help fight genocide and war crimes?
pro_2_1	ICC is the best tool for fighting genocide and war crimes	 ICC is the best tool for fighting genocide and war crimes Roger Cohen. "A Court for a New America". New York Times. 3 Dec. 2008 - "After the terrible decade of the 1990s, with its genocides in Bosnia and Rwanda and the loss there of a million lives while the United States and its allies dithered, it is unconscionable that America not stand with the institution that constitutes the most effective legal deterrent to such crimes [...] The International Criminal Court has filed charges against alleged war criminals in Congo, Central African Republic, Uganda and Sudan since it started work in 2002. The first trial, involving a Congolese warlord, Thomas Lubanga, is set to begin in January."
pro_2_2	ICC and rule of law help deter war crimes and genocide	 ICC and rule of law help deter war crimes and genocide Amnesty International. The International Criminal Court, Fact Sheet - "[The ICC] will serve as a permanent deterrent to people considering these crimes. In most cases in the last 50 years, international mechanisms to prosecute people accused of these crimes have been set up only after the crimes were committed"
pro_2_3	The ICC has proven very effective	 The ICC has proven very effective "Let the child live; International Criminal Court". The Economist. 27 Jan. 2007 - "Aged four-and-a-half, the tribunal is proving a lustier infant than many predicted. Its prosecutors have delved deeply into horrible wars in Congo, Sudan and Uganda. The court's first trial—of Thomas Lubanga, a Congolese warlord, accused of using children as soldiers—is due to start later this year. The first indictments for the mass killings in Sudan's Darfur region are expected next month. Five leaders of Uganda's rebel Lord's Resistance Army have already been indicted. One has since been killed, but the other four face trial when caught. An investigation into atrocities in a fourth, as yet unnamed, country is due to be announced soon."
pro_2_4	The ICC is less effective due to US opposition	 The ICC is less effective due to US opposition "U.S. Policy Regarding the International Criminal Court". Congressional Research Service. 29 Aug. 2006 - "The perceived U.S. willingness to hold U.N. peacekeeping missions hostage to U.S. demands for immunity from the ICC may deepen the rift between the United States and allies that support the ICC. The withholding of military assistance and other economic aid to members of the ICC may also be seen as an effort to coerce countries to refuse to ratify the Rome Statute or to sign an Article 98 agreement, which could appear to some as undermining the ICC and negating the Administration’s stated intent to respect the decisions of other countries to join the ICC." 
con_2_1	Deterrence theory untenable; ICC will not deter	 Deterrence theory untenable; ICC will not deter John R. Bolton, Under Secretary for Arms Control and International Security. "The United States and the International Criminal Court". Remarks to the Federalist Society. 14 Nov. 2002 - "ICC will not help deter the danger of the ICC may lie in its potential weakness rather than its potential strength. The most basic error is the belief that the ICC will have a substantial deterrent effect against the perpetration of crimes against humanity. Behind their optimistic rhetoric, ICC proponents have not a shred of evidence supporting their deterrence theories. In fact, they fundamentally confuse the appropriate roles of political and economic power, diplomatic efforts, military force, and legal procedures. Recent history is filled with cases where even strong military force or the threat of force failed to deter aggression or gross abuses of human rights. ICC proponents concede as much when they cite cases where the "world community" has failed to pay adequate attention, or failed to intervene in time to prevent genocide or other crimes against humanity. The new Court and Prosecutor, it is said, will now guarantee against similar failures."
con_2_2	ICC is too ineffective to deter war crimes	 ICC is too ineffective to deter war crimes John R. Bolton. "The United States and the International Criminal Court". Remarks to the Federalist Society. 14 Nov. 2002 - "deterrence ultimately depends on perceived effectiveness, and the ICC fails badly on that point. The ICC’s authority is far too attenuated to make the slightest bit of difference either to the war criminals or to the outside world. In cases where the West in particular has been unwilling to intervene militarily to prevent crimes against humanity as they were happening, why will a potential perpetrator feel deterred by the mere possibility of future legal action? A weak and distant Court will have no deterrent effect on the hard men like Pol Pot most likely to commit crimes against humanity. Why should anyone imagine that bewigged judges in The Hague will succeed where cold steel has failed? Holding out the prospect of ICC deterrence to the weak and vulnerable amounts to a cruel joke."
con_2_3	ICC is only a tool for protecting interests of powerful states.	ICC is only a tool for protecting interests of powerful states. The ICC like the UN security council will become only a tool for protecting the rights and deeds of a few countries. Genocide in many regions is a problem indeed but the war crimes in Iraq and Afghanistan were never discussed in an international forum. Can this ICC actually check war crime in those countries? Obviously no! How can the US, for instance, join a court that will point out its own crimes? Even before attacking Iraq, the UN was made a tool to attack and not a place to have discussions and to avert war. Since its useless to create such a court in which propaganda, lobbying and influence of power will have the major role, the plan should be abandoned.
headline_3	International law: Does the ICC advance international law? Is this good?
pro_3_1	ICC advances universal rights and international law	 ICC advances universal rights and international law Kofi Annan, Former U.N. Secretary-General at the signing of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court - "The establishment of the Court is still a gift of hope to future generations, and a giant step forward in the march towards universal human rights and the rule of law."[1]
pro_3_2	Crimes under ICC are already prohibited by international law	 Crimes under ICC are already prohibited by international law "U.S. Policy Regarding the International Criminal Court". Congressional Research Service. 29 Aug. 2006 - "Some ICC supporters have asserted that the crimes covered by the Rome Statute are already prohibited under international law either by treaty or under the concept of “universal jurisdiction” or both; therefore, all nations may assert jurisdiction to try persons for these crimes. The ICC, they argue, would merely be exercising the collective jurisdiction of its members, any of which could independently assert jurisdiction over the accused persons under a theory of 'universal jurisdiction'"
pro_3_3	ICC courts uphold individual rights and due process	 ICC courts uphold individual rights and due process Wes Rist. "The Conservative Case for the International Criminal Court Six Years In". Jurist. 10 Dec. 2008 - "Finally, there are some valid due process concerns relating to the operation of the Rome Statute. While the process provisions of the Rome Statute (Article 67, among others) are not exact copies of US constitutional protections, they hardly create the possibility of an unfair or impartial trial. In fact, the rights spelled out for defendants throughout the entirety of the Rome Statute are some of the strongest criminal defendant protections put in place for any international tribunal and they certainly rise to the level of meeting the judicial guarantees provided for by the Geneva Conventions and international human rights laws such as the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights."
pro_3_4	ICC acts only if nat. courts can't; preserves const. rights	 ICC acts only if nat. courts can't; preserves const. rights Wes Rist. "The Conservative Case for the International Criminal Court Six Years In". Jurist. 10 Dec. 2008 - "Ultimately, should the US government or conservatives in general have any specific concerns about the due process or Constitutional protections (or lack thereof) afforded by the Rome Statute, the solution is simple: conduct an investigation or trial domestically so that there is no reason for the ICC to become involved. In fact, as mentioned previously, a proactive investigation by the US creates a statutory bar to involvement by the ICC Office of the Prosecutor." 
pro_3_5	ICC acts only if national courts cannot; preserves sovereignty	 ICC acts only if national courts cannot; preserves sovereignty National courts have priority over ICC courts on all matters, including war crimes. Only if they fail can the ICC step in. This means that the ICC hardly impedes on national sovereignty at all, serving, rather, and role of "complementarity". 
con_3_1	Without a constitution, ICC cannot adequately protect rights	 Without a constitution, ICC cannot adequately protect rights John R. Bolton. "The United States and the International Criminal Court". Remarks to the Federalist Society. 14 Nov. 2002 - "The ICC does not, and cannot, fit into a coherent, international structural "constitutional" design that delineates clearly how laws are made, adjudicated or enforced, subject to popular accountability and structured to protect liberty. There is no such design, nor should there be. Instead, the Court and the Prosecutor are simply "out there" in the international system. Requiring the United States to be bound by this treaty, with its unaccountable Prosecutor and its unchecked judicial power, is clearly inconsistent with American standards of constitutionalism. This is a macro-constitutional issue for us, not simply a narrow, technical point of law."
con_3_2	ICC can second-guess national prosecution terminations/denials	 ICC can second-guess national prosecution terminations/denials "U.S. Policy Regarding the International Criminal Court". Congressional Research Service. 29 Aug. 2006 - "Many U.S. opponents of the ICC express concern that the ICC will be able to second-guess a valid determination by U.S. prosecutors to terminate an investigation or decline to prosecute a person. It is not uncommon for unfriendly countries to characterize U.S. foreign policy decisions as 'criminal.' The ICC could provide a forum for such charges."
con_3_3	The ICC lacks democratic accountability to voters	 The ICC lacks democratic accountability to voters John R. Bolton. "The United States and the International Criminal Court". Remarks to the Federalist Society. 14 Nov. 2002 - "Never before has the United States been asked to place any of that power outside the complete control of our national government without our consent [...] In the ICC’s central structures, the Court and Prosecutor, these sorts of political checks are either greatly attenuated or entirely absent. They are effectively accountable to no one. The Prosecutor will answer to no superior executive power, elected or unelected. Nor is there any legislature anywhere in sight, elected or unelected, in the Statute of Rome. The Prosecutor is answerable only to the Court, and then only partially, although the Prosecutor may be removed by the Assembly of States Parties."
con_3_4	ICC authority impedes foreign policy flexibility	 ICC authority impedes foreign policy flexibility "U.S. Policy Regarding the International Criminal Court". Congressional Research Service. 29 Aug. 2006 - "ICC opponents, however, may point out that if individuals are charged for conduct related to carrying out official policy, the difference between asserting jurisdiction over individuals and over the nation itself becomes less clear. After all, it is arguably the policy decision and not the individual conduct that is actually at issue. The threat of prosecution, however, could inhibit the conduct of U.S. officials in implementing U.S. foreign policy. In this way, it is argued, the ICC may be seen to infringe U.S. sovereignty."
headline_4	Historical roots: Does the ICC complete the process initiated at Nuremberg?
pro_4_1	ICC completes historic process starting with Nuremberg Trials	 ICC completes historic process starting with Nuremberg Trials Rebecca Roe. "The U.S. should embrace the international justice system". Seattle Times. 20 Sept 2007 - "The ICC, established in 2002, has a distinguished history. The permanent court arose from several temporary or ad hoc courts including Nuremberg (1945-1949), International Criminal Tribunal Yugoslavia (ICTY, 1995 to present), ICT-Rwanda (ongoing in Arusha, Tanzania) and Special Court Sierra Leone (SCSL, 1994-ongoing). The international courts prosecute genocide, ethnic cleansing, crimes against humanity, systematic rape, child soldiering and similar atrocities."
con_4_1	ICC is not historically comparable to the Nuremberg tribunal	 ICC is not historically comparable to the Nuremberg tribunal Gary T. Dempsey. "Reasonable Doubt: The Case Against the Proposed International Criminal Court". CATO Institute. 16 July 1998 - "It is common for proponents of the ICC to argue that it will function like a permanent Nuremberg tribunal.2 In fact, the city of Nuremberg, where 21 Nazis stood trial for their role in the deaths of more than 20 million people, is mounting a serious campaign to be the permanent home of the proposed court.3 Yet according to John R. Bolton, former assistant secretary of state for international organization affairs, the Nuremberg comparison does not withstand close inspection: "Whenever the idea of a war crimes tribunal is raised, Nuremberg is the model invariably cited. But an international criminal court [will be] nothing like Nuremberg."4 Consider how the Nuremberg trials actually worked. They followed the unconditional military and political surrender of the Axis powers. Prospective defendants were already in custody, and extensive documentary and physical evidence was readily available. Moreover, the Allies shared a common vision of what the postoccupation government should look like, and the defeated peoples endorsed the legitimacy of the war crimes process. Simply reciting that history shows how different Germany and the Nuremberg tribunal were from contemporary cases, like Bosnia and the Yugoslavia tribunal." 
headline_5	Checks and balances: Does the ICC have sufficient checks and balances?
pro_5_1	UN Security Council can check/veto ICC prosecutions	 UN Security Council can check/veto ICC prosecutions Benjamin B. Ferencz, J.D. Harvard 1943 and a Former Nuremberg War Crimes Prosecutor. "Response to Henry Kissinger's essay 'The Pitfalls of Universal Jurisdiction'." 2 July 2001 - "Administrative and budgetary controls are clearly defined. Without its own police force, the court must depend upon the Security Council to enforce its decisions. Enforcement can be vetoed by any of the five privileged Permanent Members, including the U.S. Kissinger's reference to the 'unlimited discretion' of the prosecutor is unfounded. Many safeguards are written into the statute. A court that acts arbitrarily or seeks to abuse its limited powers will soon cease to exist."
pro_5_2	Potential judicial mistakes don't justify opposing ICC	 Potential judicial mistakes don't justify opposing ICC Benjamin B. Ferencz, J.D. Harvard 1943 and a Former Nuremberg War Crimes Prosecutor. "Response to Henry Kissinger's essay 'The Pitfalls of Universal Jurisdiction'." 2 July 2001 - "In every democratic society it is unavoidable that some unjustified complaints may be lodged for political or other nefarious purposes. It is also inevitable that some judgments may go awry and some judges may be incompetent or worse. That is no reason to abolish courts or to refuse to accept new courts where needed."  
con_5_1	ICC lacks separation of powers and checks and balances	 ICC lacks separation of powers and checks and balances John R. Bolton. "The United States and the International Criminal Court". Remarks to the Federalist Society. 14 Nov. 2002 - "The American concept of separation of powers, imperfect though it is, reflects our settled belief that liberty is best protected when the various authorities legitimately exercised by government are, to the maximum extent possible, placed in separate branches. So structuring the national government, the Framers believed, would prevent the excessive accumulation of power in a limited number of hands, thus providing the greatest protection for individual liberty. Continental European constitutional structures do not, by and large, reflect a similar set of beliefs. They do not so thoroughly separate judicial from executive powers, just as their parliamentary systems do not so thoroughly separate executive from legislative powers. That, of course, is entirely Europe’s prerogative, and may help to explain why Europeans appear to be more comfortable with the ICC’s structure, which closely melds prosecutorial and judicial functions in the European fashion."
con_5_2	ICC prosecutors are given too much power in deciding cases	 ICC prosecutors are given too much power in deciding cases Henry Kissinger. "The Pitfalls of Universal Jurisdiction: Risking Judicial Tryanny". Foreign Affairs. Aug. 2001 - "The independent prosecutor of the ICC has the power to issue indictments, subject to review only by a panel of three judges. According to the Rome statute, the Security Council has the right to quash any indictment. But since revoking an indictment is subject to the veto of any permanent Security Council member, and since the prosecutor is unlikely to issue an indictment without the backing of at least one permanent member of the Security Council, he or she has virtually unlimited discretion in practice."
headline_6	Universal jurisdiction: Is this ICC principle legitimate?
pro_6_1	ICC advances principal universal jurisdiction on war crimes	 ICC advances principal universal jurisdiction on war crimes Amnesty International. "The Globalization of Justice" - "Universal jurisdiction is the principle that every country has an interest in bringing to justice the perpetrators of the most grave crimes, no matter where the crime was committed, and regardless of the nationality of the perpetrators or their victims. The Pinochet case is the most well-known universal jurisdiction case."
con_6_1	Universal Jurisdiction was never a legal principle	 Universal Jurisdiction was never a legal principle Henry Kissinger. "The Pitfalls of Universal Jurisdiction: Risking Judicial Tryanny". Foreign Affairs. Aug. 2001 - "The doctrine of universal jurisdiction asserts that some crimes are so heinous that their perpetrators should not escape justice by invoking doctrines of sovereign immunity or the sacrosanct nature of national frontiers [...] The very concept of universal jurisdiction is of recent vintage. [...] It is unlikely that any of the signatories of either the U.N. conventions or the Helsinki Final Act thought it possible that national judges would use them as a basis for extradition requests regarding alleged crimes committed outside their jurisdictions. The drafters almost certainly believed that they were stating general principles, not laws that would be enforced by national courts."
headline_7	Jurisdiction: Does the ICC have the right amount of authority/jurisdiction?
pro_7_1	ICC brings order to a past of ad hoc tribunals	 ICC brings order to a past of ad hoc tribunals Amnesty International. The International Criminal Court, Fact Sheet - "it will have a much wider jurisdiction than existing ad hoc tribunals. For example, the work of the International Criminal Tribunals for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda have been limited to crimes committed in a particular territory, while crimes committed in other territories have not been addressed"
pro_7_2	ICC has advanced provision for reparations and non-repetition	 ICC has advanced provision for reparations and non-repetition Amnesty International. The International Criminal Court, Fact Sheet - "the Statute [of the ICC] contains advanced provisions for the protection of victims from retraumatization, and the Court may order a convicted person to provide reparation, in the form of compensation, restitution, rehabilitation, satisfaction, guarantees of non-repetition and any other type of reparation the Court deems appropriate."
pro_7_3	ICC will not have retroactive jurisdiction over past war crimes	 ICC will not have retroactive jurisdiction over past war crimes Ian Williams. "Immune from prosecution". Salon. 16 June 2000 - "The ICC won't have retroactive effect, so it will only be able to try future criminals, and only after 60 countries have ratified it." 
pro_7_4	The ICC has gained widespread acceptance globally	The ICC has gained widespread acceptance globally.
con_7_1	The ICC's authority is vague and over-reaching	 The ICC's authority is vague and over-reaching John R. Bolton. "The United States and the International Criminal Court". Remarks to the Federalist Society. 14 Nov. 2002 - "As to the former, the ICC’s authority is vague and excessively elastic, and the Court’s discretion ranges far beyond normal or acceptable judicial responsibilities, giving it broad and unacceptable powers of interpretation that are essentially political and legislative in nature. This is most emphatically not a Court of limited jurisdiction. Crimes can be added subsequently that go beyond those included in the Rome Statute. Parties to the Statute are subject to these subsequently-added crimes only if they affirmatively accept them, but the Statute purports automatically to bind non-parties, such as the United States, to any such new crimes. It is neither reasonable nor fair that these crimes would apply to a greater extent to states that have not agreed to the terms of the Rome Statute than to those that have."
con_7_2	ICC will continually expand jurisdiction over national sovereignty	 ICC will continually expand jurisdiction over national sovereignty Gary T. Dempsey. "Reasonable Doubt: The Case Against the Proposed International Criminal Court". CATO Institute. 16 July 1998 - "the court threatens to diminish America's sovereignty, produce arbitrary and highly politicized "justice," and grow into a jurisdictional leviathan. Already some supporters of the proposed court want to give it the authority to prosecute drug trafficking as well as such vague offenses as "serious threats to the environment" and "committing outrages on personal dignity." Even if such expansive authority is not given to the ICC initially, the potential for jurisdictional creep is considerable and worrisome." 
con_7_3	The ICC is a large and expensive bureaucracy	 The ICC is a large and expensive bureaucracy
headline_8	Aggression: Does the ICC have an appropriate definition of aggression?
pro_8_1	All UN members can vote on ICC definition of aggression	 All UN members can vote on ICC definition of "aggression" "U.S. Policy Regarding the International Criminal Court". Congressional Research Service. 29 Aug. 2006 - "ICC supporters may argue that all States Parties will have the opportunity to vote on a definition of aggression after the treaty has been in effect for seven years, which definition must comport with the U.N. Charter, thereby preserving the role of the U.N. Security Council.37 The ICC, under this view, is merely providing a forum for trying persons accused of committing “aggression” under international law."
con_8_1	ICC adopts an unacceptably vague definition of aggression	 ICC adopts an unacceptably vague definition of "aggression" John R. Bolton. "The United States and the International Criminal Court". Remarks to the Federalist Society. 14 Nov. 2002 - "Numerous prospective "crimes" were suggested at Rome and commanded wide support from participating nations, such as the crime of "aggression," which was included in the Statute, but not defined. Although frequently easy to identify, "aggression" can at times be something in the eye of the beholder. For example, Israel justifiably feared in Rome that certain actions, such as its initial use of force in the Six Day War, would be perceived as illegitimate preemptive strikes that almost certainly would have provoked proceedings against top Israeli officials."
con_8_2	UN ICC members cannot agree on a definition of aggression	 UN ICC members cannot agree on a definition of "aggression" 
headline_9	Politicization: Can politicization of ICC prosecutions be avoided?
pro_9_1	ICC has strong controls for politicization and abuse	 ICC has strong controls for politicization and abuse Benjamin B. Ferencz, J.D. Harvard 1943 and a Former Nuremberg War Crimes Prosecutor. "Response to Henry Kissinger's essay 'The Pitfalls of Universal Jurisdiction'." 2 July 2001 - "[Henry Kissinger] accuses the ICTY of allowing 'prosecutorial discretion without accountability' - ignoring all the controls that exist to prevent abuse." 
con_9_1	The ICC risks heavy politicization of prosecution	 The ICC risks heavy politicization of prosecution Henry Kissinger. "The Pitfalls of Universal Jurisdiction: Risking Judicial Tryanny". Foreign Affairs. Aug. 2001 - "Another grave issue is the use in such cases of extradition procedures designed for ordinary criminals. If the Pinochet case becomes a precedent, magistrates anywhere will be in a position to put forward an extradition request without warning to the accused and regardless of the policies the accused's country might already have in place for dealing with the charges. The country from which extradition is requested then faces a seemingly technical legal decision that, in fact, amounts to the exercise of political discretion -- whether to entertain the claim or not." 
headline_10	Servicemen: Does the ICC protect or threaten service men and women abroad?
pro_10_1	ICC helps protect captured servicemen abroad	 ICC helps protect captured servicemen abroad Benjamin B. Ferencz, J.D. Harvard 1943 and a Former Nuremberg War Crimes Prosecutor. "Response to Henry Kissinger's essay 'The Pitfalls of Universal Jurisdiction'." 2 July 2001 - "Kissinger's misperceptions about current international law lead him to the erroneous conclusion that if the U.S. dos not ratify the ICC treaty Americans will be outside its reach and hence protected from malicious accusations. He fails to notice that without the protective shield of binding international law and institutions to enforce it, the military captive is completely at the mercy of his captors [...] Outstanding American international legal experts, including ten former Presidents of the American Society of International Law and the American Bar Association have, after careful study, concluded that it would be in the best interests of the United States and its military personnel for the United States to accept the proposed ICC as quickly as possible. The same conclusion was reached in 2000 by outstanding professors of the Harvard law School after a careful study by leading military and legal experts assembled by the venerated American Academy of Arts and Sciences."
pro_10_2	ICC can try servicemen only if domestic courts do not	 ICC can try servicemen only if domestic courts do not Wes Rist. "The Conservative Case for the International Criminal Court Six Years In". Jurist. 10 Dec. 2008 - "The possibility that American servicemen and women and political and military leaders could be held up to scrutiny for their actions is not a new one. It has been enshrined in American law from the foundation of the country under the Articles of War and later the Uniform Code of Military Justice. The ICC merely adds the opportunity for the prosecution of individuals who might have escaped the domestic system of justice. If there is enough evidence that the prosecutor for the ICC could even consider an investigation of a US political or military official for the crimes set out in the Rome Statute, then American conservatives should already have been at the forefront of the call for a domestic investigation. Since the principle of complementarity in Article 17 of the Rome Statute prohibits the ICC from initiating an investigation when a domestic judicial system has already addressed the issue, an American investigation into our own “dirty laundry” would prevent any ICC jurisdiction."
con_10_1	ICC puts national servicemen abroad at risk of prosecution	 ICC puts national servicemen abroad at risk of prosecution President George W. Bush said in the first term of his administration: "The United States cooperates with many other nations to keep the peace, but we will not submit American troops to prosecutors and judges whose jurisdiction we do not accept.… Every person who serves under the American flag will answer to his or her own superiors and to military law, not to the rulings of an unaccountable International Criminal Court."
con_10_2	Article 98 agreements help protect US citizens from ICC	 Article 98 agreements help protect US citizens from ICC John R. Bolton. "The United States and the International Criminal Court". Remarks to the Federalist Society. 14 Nov. 2002 - "As the ICC comes into being, we will address our concerns about the ICC’s jurisdictional claims using the remedy laid out for us by the Rome Statute itself and the UN Security Council in the case of the peacekeeping force in the former Yugoslavia. Using Article 98 of the Rome Statute as a basis, we are negotiating bilateral, legally-binding agreements with individual States Parties to protect our citizens from being handed over to the Court. Since the European Union’s decision in September to permit its member states to conclude Article 98 agreements with the United States, our negotiators have been engaged in bilateral discussions with several EU countries. In the near future we will also be holding discussions on the issue with several countries in the Middle East and South Asia. Our ultimate goal is to conclude Article 98 agreements with every country in the world, regardless of whether they have signed or ratified the ICC, regardless of whether they intend to in the future. These agreements will allow us the necessary protections in a manner that is legally permissible and consistent with the letter and spirit of the Rome Statute."
con_10_3	US Article 98 does not seek to undermine the ICC	 US Article 98 does not seek to undermine the ICC "Frequently Asked Questions About the U.S. Government's Policy Regarding the International Criminal Court (ICC)". State Department. 30 July 2003 - "The U.S. Government (USG) proposed agreement undercuts/attacks the ICC.
headline_11	Leaders: Is the ICC right to subject all leaders to the courts?
pro_11_1	ICC targets the worst war criminals, not global leaders	 ICC targets the worst war criminals, not global leaders David Scheffer. former US Ambassador at Large for War Crimes Issues (1997-2001). "The US and the International Criminal Court Then and Now". Jurist. 16 July 2008 - "In Washington many lost sight of the court’s aim to bring to justice political and military leaders who orchestrate massive atrocity crimes against thousands in lawless regions where national justice fails."
pro_11_2	The innocent have nothing to fear from the ICC.	The innocent have nothing to fear from the ICC. Countries such as the United States have avoided joining the ICC out of concern for protecting its leaders from prosecution. Yet, the ICC is established only to prosecute the worst war criminals in fairly clear-cut cases. Therefore, unless the US or other countries plan on protecting war criminals in their midst, they have nothing to fear from the ICC.
con_11_1	ICC wrongly allows prosecution of legitimate leaders	 ICC wrongly allows prosecution of legitimate leaders John R. Bolton. "The United States and the International Criminal Court". Remarks to the Federalist Society. 14 Nov. 2002 - "We are considering, in the Prosecutor, a powerful and necessary element of executive power, the power of law-enforcement. Never before has the United States been asked to place any of that power outside the complete control of our national government without our consent. Our concern goes beyond the possibility that the Prosecutor will target for indictment the isolated U.S. soldier who violates our own laws and values by allegedly committing a war crime. Our principal concern is for our country’s top civilian and military leaders, those responsible for our defense and foreign policy. They are the ones potentially at risk at the hands of the ICC’s politically unaccountable Prosecutor, as part of an agenda to restrain American discretion, even when our actions are legitimated by the operation of our own constitutional system."
con_11_2	Opposing ICC is not about protecting guilty, but sovereignty	 Opposing ICC is not about protecting guilty, but sovereignty National governments that oppose the ICC, such as the United States, are not attempting to protect guilty nationals, but preserve their national sovereignty to try these individuals. 
headline_12	Sudan: Has the ICC helped or hurt in Sudan?
pro_12_1	US opposition to ICC impairs action and justice in Sudan	 US opposition to ICC impairs action and justice in Sudan Roger Cohen. "A Court for a New America". New York Times. 3 Dec. 2008 - "it is in Sudan that the incoherence of American policy toward the court has been most evident. The United States is against impunity for the genocidal crimes in Darfur, yet it is not a member of the court seeking to prosecute those responsible [...] The court has issued arrest warrants for a former Sudanese government minister, Ahmad Harun, and for Ali Kushayb, a leader of the government-backed janjaweed militia. In July, it requested an arrest warrant for Omar Hassan al-Bashir, the Sudanese president, on charges of genocide, but judges are still reviewing whether to push ahead with the prosecution [...] When I asked Brooke Anderson, Obama’s chief national security spokeswoman, about policy toward the court, I received this e-mail response: 'President-elect Obama strongly supports the I.C.C.’s efforts to investigate and prosecute those responsible for atrocities in Sudan.'"
con_12_1	ICC war crime charges damaged diplomacy in Sudan	 ICC war crime charges damaged diplomacy in SudanDavid B Jr Rivkin and Lee Casey. "The ICC's Blow to Peace Hopes in Darfur". Wall Street Journal. 23 July 2008 - "Luis Moreno-Ocampo, the prosecutor for the International Criminal Court (ICC), has just made a mistake that will make it harder to help people suffering in Darfur. Last week, he filed charges against Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir. [...] There is no doubt that terrible crimes have been committed in Darfur. But the international community has been unwilling to use military force to stop the atrocities, and this indictment takes Darfur's second-best hope for peace -- a diplomatic settlement -- off of the table."
headline_13	America: What are the arguments specific to America? Should it join?
pro_13_1	Joining ICC will renew American leadership in international law	 Joining ICC will renew American leadership in international law Roger Cohen. "A Court for a New America". New York Times. 3 Dec. 2008 - "I can think of no better place for President-elect Barack Obama to start in signaling a changed American approach to the world, and particularly its European allies, than the International Criminal Court."
pro_13_2	Opposing ICC sends signal US doesn't care about War Crimes	 Opposing ICC sends signal US doesn't care about War Crimes Rebecca Roe. "The U.S. should embrace the international justice system". Seattle Times. 20 Sept 2007: "The absence of U.S. participation in the ICC is an embarrassment. [...] To stand idly by is to suggest the slaughter of thousands of innocent people is not a moral transgression worthy of our time and effort."
pro_13_3	The US cannot help reform the ICC unless it joins	 The US cannot help reform the ICC unless it joins Without ratifying the Rome Treaty, the US cannot participate in reforming and improving the ICC how the US sees fit, voting on such things as its definition of "aggression". 
pro_13_4	US double standard in trying only foreigners in ICC	 US double standard in trying only foreigners in ICC Ian Williams. "Immune from prosecution". Salon. 16 June 2000 - "Other nations' delegations are aghast at what many frankly call the hypocrisy of the American position. After all, Congress vociferously wants international trials for prosecutions of Slobodan Milosevic and Saddam Hussein, not to mention Foday Sankoh from Sierra Leone, the leaders of Khmer Rouge from Cambodia and the Hutu genocide instigators from Rwanda -- and if they could get their hands on him, Moammar Gadhafi of Libya would certainly be dragged before the court [...] So committed is the United States to the principle of trials for all that it sent an army to Panama to bring back President Manuel Noriega to put him in the dock in Miami. But there is one major exception to this principle. We can try who we like, but don't anyone try to try one of ours. For the sake of that, the U.S. delegation is prepared to let a whole rogues' gallery run loose." 
pro_13_5	Double standard in War on Terror and US legal complaints to ICC	 Double standard in War on Terror and US legal complaints to ICC "U.S. Policy Regarding the International Criminal Court". Congressional Research Service. 29 Aug. 2006 - "The current U.S. policy about the use of military tribunals in the war against terrorism could lead to suggestions of a double standard on the part of the United States with respect to procedural safeguards in war crimes trials."
pro_13_6	Opposition to ICC impaired US coalition-building for War on Terror	 Opposition to ICC impaired US coalition-building for War on Terror Emma Bonino. "International Criminal Court Phobia". World Press Review. Apr. 2002 - "The resistance of the U.S. government to support the creation of an International Criminal Court has placed Washington at odds with 139 signatory nations and added a sharp bone of contention to its attempts at building a cohesive anti-terror coalition."
pro_13_7	Bush opposed ICC to protect its actions in War in Iraq	 Bush opposed ICC to protect its actions in War in Iraq Dennis Kucinich. "The US Administration and the ICC". Common Dreams. 9 Dec. 2004 - "The Administration has told the American people that it refuses to participate in the ICC in order to protect our troops from being brought to the Hague. [...] It is more likely that those whose protection the administrators seek wear not the uniform of our nation, but the business suits of top civilian government officials who wrap themselves in the flag and hide behind the troops while insisting upon impunity for the deadly consequences of their own political decisions."
pro_13_8	ICC is very unlikely to prosecute US War in Iraq	 ICC is very unlikely to prosecute US War in Iraq "U.S. Policy Regarding the International Criminal Court". Congressional Research Service. 29 Aug. 2006 - "A recent determination by the ICC’s Chief Prosecutor seems to demonstrate a reluctance to launch an investigation against the United States based on allegations regarding its conduct in Iraq." 
con_13_1	US is most likely to be targeted by ICC	 US is most likely to be targeted by ICC "U.S. Policy Regarding the International Criminal Court". Congressional Research Service. 29 Aug. 2006 - "The ICC’s flaws may allow it to be used by some countries to bring trumped-up charges against American citizens, who, due to the prominent role played by the United States in world affairs, may have greater exposure to such charges than citizens of other nations."
con_13_2	US does not believe it is above the law in opposing ICC	 US does not believe it is above the law in opposing ICC "Frequently Asked Questions About the U.S. Government's Policy Regarding the International Criminal Court (ICC)". State Department. 30 July 2003 - "Why does the U.S. think its people should be above the law?
con_13_3	US believes in international law and prosecuting War Criminals	 US believes in international law and prosecuting War Criminals "Frequently Asked Questions About the U.S. Government's Policy Regarding the International Criminal Court (ICC)". State Department. 30 July 2003 - "How can the United States oppose prosecuting war criminals? [...] We do not oppose prosecuting war criminals. We have consistently led the effort to strengthen international justice and accountability."
