title	Rebuilding New Orleans
question	Should New Orleans be fully rebuilt and restored?
headline_1	Culture: Should New Orleans be restored for its cultural value?
pro_1_1	New Orleans must be restored for its cultural value	 New Orleans must be restored for its cultural value Mark J. Clayton. "The view from the levee: a case for restoring New Orleans after the hurricanes of 2005". 2005 - "Contrary to popular perception, New Orleans is not a playground for college kids and Midwesterners who want to cut loose. New Orleans is one of the great ports of the world. Based on appreciation of historic value, cultural uniqueness, and simple compassion for those who have lost so much, the case for restoring New Orleans after the hurricanes of 2005 is compelling."
con_1_1	Cities are not forever; New Orleans is no exception	 Cities are not forever; New Orleans is no exception "Don't Rebuild New Orleans". Watch Blog. 17 Dec. 2005 - "Cities are not forever. Been to Carthage lately? Miletus? Troy? Babylon? Nineveh? Persepolis? Jungles swallowed some cities. Deserts covered others. Some are underwater. Trade routes shifted. Harbors silted. Climates changed. Technologies made them obsolete. People moved away [...] New Orleans has experienced several of those things. How stupid would we have to be to spend billions of dollars to restore a mistake? Let's make a comparision."
con_1_2	New Orleans doesn't have a soul; only people do	 New Orleans doesn't have a soul; only people do "Don't Rebuild New Orleans". Watch Blog. 17 Dec. 2005 - "Places don't have souls. Only people matter. The displaced people should be fairly compensated for their lost property and advised to move to higher ground."
headline_2	Location: Is New Orleans located well or was it a mistake?
pro_2_1	New Orleans is well located at the head of Mississippi	 New Orleans is well located at the head of Mississippi Mark J. Clayton Associate Professor Department of Architecture Texas A&M University. "The view from the levee." 2005 - "there are very good reasons for New Orleans to be where it is [...] The urban geography of New Orleans is defined by the river. The Mississippi is the 14th longest river in the world (Geohive 2005a). If measured from the headwaters of the Missouri to the Gulf of Mexico, it would be the fourth longest. It has the third largest drainage area among world rivers, stretching from New York to Montana and draining over 40% of the land of the 48 contiguous states (Wikipedia 2005a) [...] The mouth of the Mississippi is a globally unique natural feature. One of the longest and richest river systems in the world empties lazily not into an ocean or sea, but into a relatively tranquil gulf. The deposits of silt form an enormous alluvial plain stretching from Illinois to the gulf that is some of the richest farmland in the world."
pro_2_2	New Orleans civilization should be maintained despite hurricane threat	 New Orleans civilization should be maintained despite hurricane threat Mark J. Clayton Associate Professor Department of Architecture Texas A&M University. "The view from the levee: a case for restoring New Orleans after the hurricanes of 2005". 2005 - "the solution is not to abandon a region of the nation, but to find a way to maintain civilization under the threat of the hurricanes."
pro_2_3	City location need not be logical to justify existence	 City location need not be "logical" to justify existence Barbara Gelinas. "Rebuilding New Orleans is essential, if not practical". The Shorthorn. 28 Aug. 2007 - "Some of America’s most impressive achievements were never logical or practical. Building Los Angeles in the middle of a desert was illogical. Sending men to the moon was impractical. [...] Let’s stop asking if we should rebuild and move on to how we should rebuild." 
pro_2_4	New Orleans can be a model for all threatened coastal cities	 New Orleans can be a model for all threatened coastal cities Many coastal cities are under threat around the world now, such as Amsterdam and Venice, and in the future, such as New York and Miami. Protecting New Orleans from its various threats will teach us how to protect these other cities now and in the future. 
con_2_1	New Orleans was wrongly built below sea level at odds with nature	 New Orleans was wrongly built below sea level at odds with nature St. Louis University professor of earth and atmospheric sciences Timothy Kusky told Time this week, "New Orleans naturally wants to be a lake. A city should never have been built there in the first place," he said to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution."[1]
con_2_2	Why rebuild New Orleans when it will be destroyed again?	 Why rebuild New Orleans when it will be destroyed again? Grant Swank, Pastor and Author. "Don't Rebuild New Orleans". 1 Sept. 2005 - "Are we going to rebuild a city that is going to go under again and again and again? The geography was warned over and over in the past by professionals who forecast that the bowl would fill up with flood waters one day. And now that apocalypse has come. We are experiencing the worst disaster in the nation’s history [...] Would we rebuild in order to do a return of same in some year yet to be? Would that be fair to the upcoming generations let alone to our own logical present-tense see-throughs?"
con_2_3	Rebuilding New Orleans would put future residents at risk	 Rebuilding New Orleans would put future residents at risk Beverly Cigler, a public policy professor at Pennsylvania State University. - "It's a soup bowl, and it's not safe [...] some places are safer than others [...] My own personal opinion is that you shouldn't rebuild in areas unless you can make them safe. And nobody's had the willingness to confront these kinds of issues."[2]
con_2_4	The higher the New Orleans levees, the worse the flooding	 The higher the New Orleans levees, the worse the flooding Joan Hough. "The Case Against Rebuilding New Orleans". Georgia Heritage Council. - "New Orleans, we are told by some, can be stopped from sliding into all of that salt water surrounding it, if only we pile the levees higher and make them stronger. Should we ignore the fact that the higher the levees the deeper the floods that will follow?"
con_2_5	The Mississippi river will shift away from New Orleans	 The Mississippi river will shift away from New Orleans 
con_2_6	New Orleans sinks further each year, increasing costs/risks	 New Orleans sinks further each year, increasing costs/risks 
con_2_7	Global warming and rising seas run against rebuilding New Orleans	 Global warming and rising seas run against rebuilding New Orleans 
con_2_8	Global warming & stronger hurricanes will destroy new New Orleans	 Global warming & stronger hurricanes will destroy new New Orleans
con_2_9	Original New Orleans settlers didn't build below sea level	 Original New Orleans settlers didn't build below sea level 
con_2_10	US should rebuild only parts of New Orleans above sea level	 US should rebuild only parts of New Orleans above sea level 
con_2_11	New Orleans should be relocated farther up the Mississippi	 New Orleans should be relocated farther up the Mississippi 
headline_3	Government: Is the US government obligated to refund rebuilding the city?
pro_3_1	US govt. allowed New Orleans crisis so must rebuild city	 US govt. allowed New Orleans crisis so must rebuild city "New Orleans Needs More Federal Assistance to Rebuild, Panelists Argue". Conference on Public Service and the Law at the University of Virginia Law School. 22 Mar. 2006 - "the United States has a moral obligation to rebuild the city. Although Katrina was destructive, the city’s worst devastation came from the flooding that was a direct consequence of the breach in the levies, which 'is the responsibility without question of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.' [according to Kim M. Boyle, a member of the Bring New Orleans Back Commission]."
pro_3_2	New Orleans should be rebuilt out of respect for tragedy.	New Orleans should be rebuilt out of respect for tragedy. Katrina was certainly one of the greatest natural disasters in US history, killing roughly 1,500 people. Out of respect for such a tragedy, New Orleans should be rebuilt, and the memory of both the city and those that lived and died in it should be honored.
pro_3_3	Government is obligated to rebuild NO levees and infrastructure.	Government is obligated to rebuild NO levees and infrastructure. The government has a responsibility to ensure the integrity of a city's infrastructure and protect its citizens. Since people are returning to New Orleans, the government has a responsibility to protect them by building the necessary levees and infrastructure to ensure their safety and liberties.  
pro_3_4	People want to live in New Orleans, so it must be rebuilt	 People want to live in New Orleans, so it must be rebuilt Donald E. Powell, Federal Coordinator of Gulf Coast Rebuilding. "Forward progress; Rebuilding the Gulf Coast". The Washington Times. 25 Feb. 2008 - "Each time I visit New Orleans and the rest of the Gulf Coast I am struck by how much has improved since the 2005 hurricanes. The people of the Gulf Coast have shown tremendous determination and fortitude to get their communities and their lives back on track, and I am amazed at their progress."
con_3_1	People, not government, should naturally rebuild New Orleans	 People, not government, should naturally rebuild New Orleans The rebuilding of New Orleans should not be "forced" by any organizing body, but should occur only according to market demand. If people want to live in an area, they should be allowed to do so, but without any government or organized support. 
con_3_2	Government should fund residents, not rebuilding New Orleans	 Government should fund residents, not rebuilding New Orleans The people of New Orleans need to be the focus of all federal funding. Many displaced families will not return to New Orleans, and may not benefit from the rebuilding of the city. In general, people will spend money most efficiently in rebuilding New Orleans.
con_3_3	Louisiana politicians cannot be trusted with federal funding	 Louisiana politicians cannot be trusted with federal funding "Stop Funding the New Orleans Katrina Recovery - for now at least." Dummocrats. 3 Jan. 2006 - "Louisiana politicians cannot be trusted with your money. Don't let them have it. Contact your congressional leadership today, and ask them to turn off the tap for Katrina funding for Louisiana until our politicians are replaced or accept a great deal more supervision in their spending."
con_3_4	America is vast; there is no need to rebuild New Orleans	 America is vast; there is no need to rebuild New Orleans There are many places in America where Katrina's displaced people can reside. There is no need for them to return to New Orleans, even if this is preferred.
con_3_5	There is little desire to return to New Orleans and rebuild	 There is little desire to return to New Orleans and rebuild Jack Shafer. "Don't Refloat". Slate. 7 Sept. 2005 - "Few uninsured landlords and poor home owners have the wherewithal to rebuild—or the desire. And how many of the city's well-off and wealthy workers—the folks who provide the city's tax base—will return? Will the doctors, lawyers, accountants, and professors have jobs to return to? According to the Wall Street Journal, many businesses are expected to relocate completely. Unless the federal government adopts New Orleans as its ward and pays all its bills for the next 20 years—an unlikely to absurd proposition—the place won't be rebuilt." 
headline_4	Economics: Is rebuilding New Orleans economical?
pro_4_1	New Orleans is an economically essential port city	 New Orleans is an economically essential port city Mark J. Clayton, Associate Professor Department of Architecture Texas A&M University. "The view from the levee". 2005 - Permanent evacuation of South Louisiana does not make economic sense. The river is the reason for New Orleans. If you move the city, you must move the river and vice versa. The simple truths of shipping, commerce, and trade require that there must be a port at the mouth of the Mississippi.
pro_4_2	Rebuilding New Orleans is not too costly for America	 Rebuilding New Orleans is not too costly for America Save Big Easy.org - "Some even use the argument that the U.S. government cannot afford to strengthen the New Orleans levees beyond a Category 3. This is simply not true. Monetary issues have never stopped the U.S. government, or the American people, from pursuing a course that they know to be right [...] From 1948 to 1951, the U.S. spent $13 billion on the Marshall Plan to rebuild Western Europe. That is equivalent to $100 billion in 2005 dollars. [...] In the FY2006 federal budget that President Bush submitted to Congress, requests were made for $8.2 billion for core development assistance to other countries [...] This is not to say that any of these causes are undeserving of the funds they are receiving or received in the past; indeed many of them are very worthwhile. However, they do provide some perspective into how much money the government spends on foreign ventures. They also expose the immaturity of the argument that we cannot afford to spend the necessary money to upgrade the levee system design in New Orleans"
pro_4_3	Much of New Orleans survived Katrina; not rebuilding from scratch	 Much of New Orleans survived Katrina; not rebuilding from scratch "Rebuilding the 'Big Easy' — Not So Easy". National Building Museum. 15 Nov. 2005 - "It is [...] becoming clear that a significant percentage of the city’s buildings are either intact, only modestly damaged, or substantially salvageable, meaning that some of the early calls for “moving” New Orleans greatly overstated the extent of the destruction."
pro_4_4	Rebuilding New Orleans can be funded by cutting pork	 Rebuilding New Orleans can be funded by cutting pork Jay Ambrose. "To rebuild New Orleans, D.C. should forgo pork and corporate welfare". Desert News. 25 Sept. 2005 - "This nation is going to rebuild a major city -- New Orleans -- and that won't come cheap. Some say the federal government's contribution alone could end up being $200 billion, and some also say there's just one way to come up with the money: Raise taxes. [...] That's wrong, even though worries about the federal deficit are right. [...]  You can start, in fact, with corporate welfare, a favorite target of the liberals as well as of many principled conservatives. [...] You can then move to pork, which used to be a specialty of Democrats until Republicans took over both houses in Congress." 
con_4_1	Rebuilding New Orleans will not return it to economic vibrancy	 Rebuilding New Orleans will not return it to economic vibrancy Edward L. Glaeser. "Should the Government Rebuild New Orleans, Or Just Give Residents Checks?". The Economist's Voice. Vol 2, Issue 4, 2005. - "Could New Orleans, with Spending, Somehow Return to Its Long-Past Glory? [...] Granted, some previously great ports have managed to rebuild themselves around new industries. New York is now devoted to finance. San Francisco is the center for information technology. [...] But New Orleans was never able to reinvent itself, perhaps because it lacked the human capital that has been so heavily correlated with urban success over the past 50 years."
con_4_2	New Orleans has been on the economic decline for decades	 New Orleans has been on the economic decline for decades Edward L. Glaeser. "Should the Government Rebuild New Orleans, Or Just Give Residents Checks?". The Economist's Voice. Vol 2, Issue 4, 2005. - New Orleans is like many great American cities that were built during previous eras and have become somewhat obsolete [...] New Orleans began to decline, in absolute terms, in 1960. The port remains important, but increasing mechanization and containerization, together meant that fewer and fewer people were needed to work in that port. Today, according to the 2003 County Business Patterns, less than one-twentieth of the employees in New Orleans are in transportation industries, and more than a quarter of these aren’t even working in the port or pipelines."
con_4_3	Building and maintaining levees in New Orleans is costly	 Building and maintaining levees in New Orleans is costly Joel K. Bourne, Jr. "New Orleans: A Perilous Future". National Geographic. August 2007 - "FROM ITS INCEPTION, the project was beset with technical problems, litigation, and political tinkering. What was supposed to be built in 13 years for 85 million dollars became a never ending 740-million-dollar project that was still ten years from completion when Katrina hit. The Government Accountability Office—the watchdog of Congress—had a field day, regularly criticizing the corps for cost overruns and delays."
con_4_4	US does not have enough resources to rebuild New Orleans	 US does not have enough resources to rebuild New Orleans "The Case Against Rebuilding New Orleans". The Unplanning Journal. 8 Sept. 2005 - "With the recent destruction of New Orleans, will we also have enough energy (and other resources) to rebuild what was lost while protecting from future calamity? [...] Again the answer would have to be no. [...] Our global energy supplies are stretched thinner than ever, even before Hurricane Katrina struck. [...] Secondly, the spiraling cost of oil and other forms of energy would suck the economic life out of the country, depriving the government of the will or the means to pay for an increasingly costly reconstruction effort."
headline_5	Socio-economics: Can rebuilding New Orleans improve its socio-economics?
pro_5_1	New Orleans can be rebuilt to address its social problems	 New Orleans can be rebuilt to address its social problems Thomas Campanella, an urban planning professor at the University of North Carolina and co-editor of "The Resilient City.", said to the Christian Science Monitor in October of 2005, that rebuilding "is going to take tackling the socioeconomic problems that bedeviled the city long before Katrina. There's going to be billions and billions of dollars thrown at this, and it should be spent to fix the preexisting conditions that led to this massive underclass being in such a bad condition."[3]
pro_5_2	Rebuilding New Orleans is important to rejuvenating America	 Rebuilding New Orleans is important to rejuvenating America Toni McElroy and Kevin Whelan. "Rebuild New Orleans, Rebuild America". Tom Paine, Common Sense. 5 Feb. 2007 - "Rebuilding could be powerful theme for members of Congress who want to take up the striking mandate delivered in the last election and rekindle the dreams of making the county a fundamentally better and fairer place. Finally getting down to the work of rebuilding New Orleans and the Gulf Coast would be a great place to start. But why not get busy rebuilding America, as well?"
con_5_1	Why revive a poor, struggling, and violent New Orleans?	 Why revive a poor, struggling, and violent New Orleans? Jack Shafer. "Don't Refloat". Slate. 7 Sept. 2005 - "Nobody can deny New Orleans' cultural primacy or its historical importance. But before we refloat the sunken city, before we think of spending billions of dollars rebuilding levees that may not hold back the next storm, before we contemplate reconstructing the thousands of homes now disintegrating in the toxic tang of the flood, let's investigate what sort of place Katrina destroyed.
headline_6	Race: Is rebuilding New Orleans important to race relations?
pro_6_1	Rebuilding New Orleans is key to improving US race relations	 Rebuilding New Orleans is key to improving US race relations Former Oregon State Rep. Chris Beck (D-Portland). "Why should we bother rebuilding New Orleans?". Oregonian. News 2007 - "If we can't, or don't want to, save New Orleans, then we are essentially abdicating our national responsibility to get it right when it comes to the most troubling parts of our history: slavery and its troublesome aftermath. Yes, of course, plenty of other cities have racial problems that can and should be dealt with. But New Orleans is where the best and worst of it has found voice, and it behooves us to save this cherished chunk of our past and present, to understand our past so we can be reminded we still have a lot of work to do." 
con_6_1	Not rebuilding New Orleans has nothing to do with race	 Not rebuilding New Orleans has nothing to do with race. Stan Guthrie. "Don’t Rebuild New Orleans". 12 Sept. 2005 - Democratic National Committee Chairman Howard Dean, speaking to the National Baptist Convention of America, noted what he called 'the ugly truth that skin color, age and economics played a significant role in who survived and who did not.' Unfortunately, loony conspiracy theories are nothing new for Dean, or for a significant percentage of the nation’s African American community[...]Such irrational fears play into the hands of a Democratic power structure ever eager for an excuse to bash the president, and looking for ways to keep African Americans on the liberal plantation. They are also a significant hindrance to many African Americans ever getting a realistic shot at the American Dream. While some discrimination still exists, the bigger problem for many blacks is their worldview."
headline_7	Environment: Can rebuilding New Orleans be environmentally friendly?
pro_7_1	Rebuilding New Orleans allows green urban planning	 Rebuilding New Orleans allows "green" urban planning Pam Dashiell, executive director of Center for Sustainable Engagement and Development (CSED), says, "We're leading a unique grassroots effort to go the next step to rebuild this historic landmark - this time green."[4]
con_7_1	New Orleans seriously damages the Mississippi river ecosystem	 New Orleans seriously damages the Mississippi river ecosystem John Blair. "Not Where It Was. Should New Orleans be Rebuilt?". Counter Punch. 5 Sept. 2005 - "Much of the problem lies squarely with the US Army Corps of Engineers which has done everything Congress would fund to develop the Rivers for commerce, dismissing the needs of the natural world all along its path. Wetlands have been destroyed, rivers have been raised, channels have been altered and dams have been built. Together, these represent a complete assault on the natural systems that might have helped mitigate the disaster we experienced as a nation on the Gulf Coast."
con_7_2	Spend money on alternative energy, not rebuilding New Orleans	 Spend money on alternative energy, not rebuilding New Orleans Spending money rebuilding New Orleans would be a waste, as the city could be overwhelmed in coming years by another hurricane. This money would be better spent building alternative energy sources and combating global warming.
