title	Bailout of US automakers
question	Should the US government bailout US automakers (even with a low-interest loan)?
headline_1	Markets: Is intervening in markets with a bailout justified?
pro_1_1	US autos are not just companies; part of American fabric	 US autos are not just companies; part of American fabric Bob Herbert. "‘Drop Dead’ Is Not an Option". New York Times. 17 Nov. 2008 - "The ideological hard-liners have now cast their collectively jaundiced eye on Detroit’s automakers. Their response to the very real danger that General Motors might crumble into bankruptcy is: C’est la vie [...] But in the current environment, allowing one or more of the Big Three to go bankrupt would be like offering up your nose to Sweeney Todd to spite your face [...] It’s not just General Motors or Chrysler or Ford. The U.S. auto industry is the cornerstone of American manufacturing. It supports millions of jobs, directly or indirectly, in a vast array of businesses."
pro_1_2	US auto bailout is better than the more costly alternatives	 US auto bailout is better than the more costly alternatives "Editorial: Auto Bailout; The alternative is worse". Philadelphia Inquirer. 23 Nov. 2008 - "The frustrating part about auto executives' presumptuous attitude toward a taxpayer bailout is that they are probably right -- they are too big to fail[...]here's the problem: a collapse of the domestic auto industry will cost the public much more than a short-term bailout." 
pro_1_3	US govt. is responsible for protecting communities with auto bailout	 US govt. is responsible for protecting communities with auto bailout "Congress must bail out our auto industry". The Register Citizen. 16 Nov. 2008 - "why, many people are asking, must the American taxpayer once again pay to subsidize companies that just couldn’t compete?[...] Should Congress fail to act decisively and support the auto industry in its time of need, whole towns in the Midwest will become ghost towns. A great swath of the United States will be left with little to no means of supporting itself. Henry Ford helped shape modern American industry and, until now, many families are still reaping the benefits of the that vision [...] We in Northwest Connecticut know well what happens when industry shuts down. Cities and towns like Torrington and Winsted struggle to grow decades after a mass job loss, and the questions of how to revive local economies is still on the forefront of the agendas [...] Torrington, using its redevelopment plan, is trying to reinvent its downtown. But how can literally half the Midwest reinvent itself? How could all of those jobs be replaced? [...] They could never be replaced, and so they must be guaranteed by taxpayer dollars, however hard that might be."
pro_1_4	Class bias influenced reluctance to help Detroit	 Class bias influenced reluctance to help Detroit "Reluctance to Help Detroit Reeks of Class Bias". Washington Post. 7 Dec. 2008 - "It has happened repeatedly in the last several weeks -- well-paid, well-known journalists questioning the wisdom of 'bailing out Detroit,' of helping an industry whose union-represented workers have substantially better wages and benefits than other manual or skilled laborers, or, more precisely, who are better compensated than their nonunion counterparts working at foreign-owned rival companies building cars and trucks in the United States.[...] Might I suggest class bias?" 
pro_1_5	If US automakers fail, foreign autos will raise prices	 If US automakers fail, foreign autos will raise prices Kate McLeod. "Help Detroit!". Wow O Wow. 2 Dec. 2008 - "Prices? When the home team goes down, watch those foreigners push up their car prices. It’s just what they are waiting for."
pro_1_6	Bailout is investment in future tax revenues from US autos	 Bailout is investment in future tax revenues from US autos By sustaining the automakers, a bailout will sustain government revenues from the automakers. In this sense, a bailout is a government, budgetary, and taxpayer investment in future tax revenues from the companies. 
con_1_1	Bailout of US autos wrongly intervenes in marketplace	 Bailout of US autos wrongly intervenes in marketplace David Brooks. "Bailout to Nowhere". New York Times. 18 Nov. 2008 - "Not so long ago, corporate giants with names like PanAm, ITT and Montgomery Ward roamed the earth. They faded and were replaced by new companies with names like Microsoft, Southwest Airlines and Target. The U.S. became famous for this pattern of decay and new growth. Over time, American government built a bigger safety net so workers could survive the vicissitudes of this creative destruction — with unemployment insurance and soon, one hopes, health care security. But the government has generally not interfered in the dynamic process itself, which is the source of the country’s prosperity [...] But this, apparently, is about to change. Democrats from Barack Obama to Nancy Pelosi want to grant immortality to General Motors, Chrysler and Ford. They have decided to follow an earlier $25 billion loan with a $50 billion bailout, which would inevitably be followed by more billions later, because if these companies are not permitted to go bankrupt now, they never will be." 
con_1_2	US can rely entirely on foreign automakers in global economy	 US can rely entirely on foreign automakers in global economy Richard M. Ebeling. "Bailing Out Big Auto Is a Bad Idea". American Institute for Economic Research. 10 Nov. 2008 - "When the current economic crisis passes – and it will as all other crises have in the past – Americans will still want cars, trucks, and maybe SUVs to drive. But that does not mean that the suppliers have to be American automobile manufacturers. The whole purpose of open, competitive markets is to find out who can “deliver the goods” better and cheaper, and to take advantage of the resulting cost savings and improved qualities of what is being offered."
con_1_3	US auto bailout would damage global free trade	 US auto bailout would damage global free trade By showing heavy favoritism for domestic auto suppliers, the US would cause other foreign governments to become increasingly protectionist, damaging free trade and the broader global environment for foreign direct investment.
con_1_4	Auto bailout could diminish US assets and dollar	 Auto bailout could diminish US assets and dollar Matthew J. Slaughter. "An Auto Bailout Would Be Terrible for Free Trade". Wall Street Journal. 20 Nov. 2008 - "America runs the risk of creating the kind of "political-risk premium" that investors have long placed on other countries -- and that would reduce demand for U.S. assets and thereby the value of the U.S. dollar."
con_1_5	Automaker bailout unfairly disadvantages competition	 Automaker bailout unfairly disadvantages competition "A Detroit Bailout Is Unwise". Wall Street Journal. 30 Aug. 2008 - "Aside from the cost to taxpayers, a government safety net for companies discourages prudent management. It also potentially puts rivals at a disadvantage, making markets less efficient and ultimately hurting consumers." That doesn't mean policy makers should never, ever, step in. But the test should be whether the alternative is disastrous enough to justify intervention."
con_1_6	Taxpayer dollars should not be used to bailout auto companies	 Taxpayer dollars should not be used to bailout auto companies. The bailout of the auto industry merely transfers wealth from taxpayers to auto companies and their employees. In a free marketplace, this is not a good precedent to set.
headline_2	Turnaround: Can a bailout help turnaround US automakers?
pro_2_1	Recent failure of autos does not justify letting them die	 Recent failure of autos does not justify letting them die Bob Herbert. "‘Drop Dead’ Is Not an Option". New York Times. 17 Nov. 2008 - "It’s easy to demonize the American auto industry. It has behaved with the foresight of a crack addict for years. But even when people set their own houses on fire, we still dial 9-1-1, hoping to save lives, salvage what we can and protect the rest of the neighborhood."
pro_2_2	US autos are productive and viable, should be kept alive.	US autos are productive and viable, should be kept alive. US automakers Ford, GM, and Chrysler are all fundamentally productive companies, despite having some poor management and strategic planning in recent years. To leave these companies to die, therefore, would be very wasteful of their productive capacity, as well as their potential to thrive again in the future.
pro_2_3	Auto bailout protects great cars just now coming out	 Auto bailout protects great cars just now coming out Kate McLeod. "Help Detroit!". Wow O Wow. 2 Dec. 2008 - "They’ve got good stuff coming — if they live to bring it out. The Chevy Cruze, a compact that will get 40+ mpg on the highway with a regular gasoline engine, the Volt, the Camaro, the gorgeous Cadillac CTS coupe, the coming Ford Fiesta small car, the coming Focus, next year’s Mustang, the twin-turbo switchover." 
pro_2_4	US bailout can force needed changes on automakers	 US bailout can force needed changes on automakers. Bob Herbert. "‘Drop Dead’ Is Not an Option". New York Times. 17 Nov. 2008 - "At the moment, Washington has tremendous leverage over the failing auto industry. The government should craft a rescue plan that is both tough and very, very smart. That means dragging the industry (kicking and screaming, no doubt) into the 21st century by insisting on ironclad commitments to design and develop vehicles that make sense economically and that serve the nation’s long-term energy security requirements. What I would like to see is creative thinking on both ends of the bargain. Let the smartest minds design a bailout that sparks a creative revolution in the industry. Think of it as project synergy. Time’s wasting."
pro_2_5	US has successfully aided autos before; can do it again	 US has successfully aided autos before; can do it again Bogdan Kipling. "Guest column: Auto bailout is a good idea". Greenbay Press Gazette. 2 Dec. 2008 - "Washington has successfully propped up the auto industry before. Car makers demanded tariff protection — and got it. Chrysler asked for a bailout in 1979 — and got it. The bailout worked. Chrysler recovered and blossomed. Harley Davidson was on the block and Washington stepped in. The totemic American motorcycle is now a legend."
pro_2_6	Withholding bailout is not necessary to US auto restructuring.	Withholding bailout is not necessary to US auto restructuring. It is wrong to assume that the only way to incentivize the US automotive giants to reform is by withholding a federal bailout or low-interest loan program. Even with a bailout, they will need to reform to survive in the long-run. And, the US government can use a bailout to force the autos to reform. 
con_2_1	Bailout cannot prevent inevitable collapse of US autos	 Bailout cannot prevent inevitable collapse of US autos "Saving Detroit From Itself". New York Times. 17 Nov 2008 - "It makes no sense at all to give these companies billions just so they can struggle on for a few more months down this disastrous path[...]there is no guarantee that these companies will survive after years of failed management. We are sure they won’t if they don’t make sweeping changes in the way they do business."
con_2_2	Autos will not restructure if US bails them out	 Autos will not restructure if US bails them out Mitt Romney. "Let Detroit Go Bankrupt". New York Times. 18 Nov 2008 - "IF General Motors, Ford and Chrysler get the bailout that their chief executives asked for yesterday, you can kiss the American automotive industry goodbye. It won’t go overnight, but its demise will be virtually guaranteed.
con_2_3	Bailout with strings attached will not help autos compete	 Bailout with strings attached will not help autos compete Daniel J. Ikenson. "Don’t Bail Out the Big Three". The American. 21 Nov. 2008 - "To dampen criticism, Congressional Democrats speak of a bailout “with strings attached.” But even a strings-attached bailout poses problems.[...]First, Congress doesn’t know enough about the auto business to dictate operational conditions. “Strings” that cap executive compensation will chase talent away. Strings that force Detroit to produce high-mileage vehicles when gas prices are plummeting will lead to a repetition of past mistakes. [...] Second, strings will make it easier for the Big Three to come back for more federal aid after they blow through the first $25 billion. Their CEOs will be able to say that they complied with the conditions of the original bailout, which happened to make matters worse for them."
con_2_4	Past US auto bailouts only fostered dependencies	 Past US auto bailouts only fostered dependencies Bill Steigerwald. "Don't Bail Out the Big Three". Town Hall. 17 Nov. 2008 - "A One of the examples I'm hearing from proponents of the current bailout is, "Let's go back to 1979 when Chrysler was bailed out. That was a success story. Chrysler came out of bankruptcy and paid back the U.S. taxpayer with interest after four years." Well, to me, the fact that the government stepped in back then has been an enabling implicit guarantee for the Big Three ever since. Had Chrysler gone under back then, I am convinced that the unions would not have had as much power as they had during the 1980s, because they would have been dealing with two companies instead of three. So they would have had less leverage. So had Chrysler had gone under then, the "Big Two" might not be in the position that they are in right now." 
con_2_5	Bailout would diminish global market for US autos	 Bailout would diminish global market for US autos By showing significant favoritism, a US autos bailout would increase global auto protectionism and make it harder for US auto companies to find global markets for their products, which is exactly what they need to do to compete and survive.
headline_3	Bankruptcy: Are the consequences of bankruptcy unacceptable?
pro_3_1	Failure of US autos would devastate US economy	 Failure of US autos would devastate US economy Steven Pearlstein. "The Road to a Bailout They Don't Deserve". The Washington Post. 3 Sept 2008 - "If one of these companies is forced into bankruptcy, the other two are almost certain to follow, resulting in massive layoffs and plant closures, a hit to the incomes of millions of retirees and another body blow to wounded banks and credit markets that have lent the Big Three hundreds of billions of dollars. It would also dump tens of billions of dollars in pension liabilities on the federal government's pension guarantee agency."
pro_3_2	Failure of US autos would devastate supporting industries	 Failure of US autos would devastate supporting industries 
pro_3_3	Bankruptcy of US autos would spread panic in US economy	 Bankruptcy of US autos would spread panic in US economy 
pro_3_4	Without aid, US auto collapse will cause massive job loss	 Without aid, US auto collapse will cause massive job loss 
pro_3_5	Auto bankruptcy during economic crisis would be devastating	 Auto bankruptcy during economic crisis would be devastating 
pro_3_6	US autos may never get out of Chapter 11 bankruptcy	 US autos may never get out of Chapter 11 bankruptcy Daniel Gross. "In Defense of Detroit". Newsweek. 13 Nov. 2008 - More significantly, Chapter 11 proceedings for GM would be far more complicated than that of a retailer, or of Lehman Brothers. Recent experience shows that for auto companies, Chapter 11 is like the Hotel California. You can check in any time you like, but you can never be able to leave. Auto parts supplier Delphifiled for Chapter 11 in October 2005, and still languishes there. Getting out of Chapter 11 can be tough when (a) the bankrupt companies are capital-intensive manufacturers; and (b) creditors are reluctant to give up on their claims. Among those with the biggest claims on the automakers, and GM in particular, are the United Auto Workers."
pro_3_7	Consumers would not buy cars from bankrupted automakers	 Consumers would not buy cars from bankrupted automakers "Why auto firms must be helped". Toronto Star. 22 Nov. 2008 - "Some arrant nonsense has been spoken and written about letting the Detroit Three slip into bankruptcy in order to restructure. Who would buy a car from a bankrupt automaker?"
pro_3_8	Bankruptcy is not best way to turnaround autos	 Bankruptcy is not best way to turnaround autos Daniel Gross. "In Defense of Detroit". Newsweek. 13 Nov. 2008 - "is a Chapter 11 filing the best way to reach these goals [of reforming of the autos]? Answering yes presumes that the case would be resolved quickly, that the entities would be able to obtain ample debtor-in-possession financing, that parties with legitimate legal claims on the company's assets and cash flows would give them up willingly. But many of the questions surrounding the Big Three's future can't be resolved in law firm conference rooms or in the chambers of bankruptcy court, and won't center around legal questions."
con_3_1	Bailout deters car buyers as much as bankruptcy would.	Bailout deters car buyers as much as bankruptcy would. People have claimed that Americans wouldn't buy from a company that declared bankruptcy. The fact is people are already not buying the cars or there wouldn't be a problem.  And how exactly is getting a bailout any different than Chapter 11? Both suggest incompetence.
con_3_2	Chapter 11 bankruptcy will help autos restructure and regroup	 Chapter 11 bankruptcy will help autos restructure and regroup. "Saving Detroit". Economist. 13 Nov. 2008 - "The United States created Chapter 11 precisely to help companies that need protection from their creditors while they restructure their liabilities and winnow out the good business from the bad. If the North American businesses of GM and Ford filed for Chapter 11, their activities elsewhere would be largely unaffected. Even in North America, their businesses could continue to make vehicles as they shed costs and renegotiated contracts."
con_3_3	Chapter 11 bankruptcy may not deter car consumers	 Chapter 11 bankruptcy may not deter car consumers "Saving Detroit". Economist. 13 Nov. 2008 - "The carmakers retort that being in Chapter 11 will poison their business. Buying a new car is a long-term gamble on there being dealers, spare parts and a thriving second-hand market for your vehicle. Drivers overwhelmingly tell surveys that they would not take the risk when Mercedes and Toyota make perfectly good alternatives. But $50 billion is a lot to stake on a hunch. A wiser bet is that whatever consumers say today, the stigma of being in Chapter 11 would fade, obscured by price cuts, advertising and most of all news that the car companies were tackling their remaining problems. Remember that, in many ways, Chapter 11 is more stable and predictable than depending upon the government."
con_3_4	Chrysler and GM should declare bankruptcy and merge	 Chrysler and GM should declare bankruptcy and merge Jack and Suzy Welch. "GM: The Case Against a Bailout". Business Week. 18 Nov. 2008 - "Should the government bail out the U.S. auto industry to keep the players from going into bankruptcy?—Bill VanderMolen, Pittsfield Township, Mich [...] How about this instead: The boards of Chrysler and General Motors (GM) put their companies into bankruptcy with the clear intent of reorganization and merger. As radical as that sounds, it's the best road we can see to a viable future for the industry." 
headline_4	Moral hazard: Does a bailout set a bad precedent (moral hazard)?
pro_4_1	Saving economy outweighs moral hazard of auto bailout	 Saving economy outweighs moral hazard of auto bailout Steven Pearlstein. "The Road to a Bailout They Don't Deserve". The Washington Post. 3 Sept 2008 - Not only are the Big Three not deserving, but to help them out of their current predicament would also set a lousy precedent in a market-driven economy where the possibility of earning great wealth is supposed to be balanced against the possibility of failure[...] And yet it is probably the wise thing to do. This is a uniquely inopportune time for these three giant companies, with their hundreds of thousands of employees and vast national network of suppliers and distributors, to be forced to go through the painful process of bankruptcy reorganization."\
pro_4_2	Autos are exceptional; other companies will not get bailouts.	Autos are exceptional; other companies will not get bailouts. Opponents argued that a bailout will set a precedent that will cause other companies to seek bailouts for their financial difficulties. Yet, the auto industry is uniquely important to the American economy, jobs, communities, American society, energy security, and even national security. The simultaneous failures of The Big Three, in addition, and the prospects of these failures devastating the US economy, make the case for bailing them out exceptional. No other companies in American are so unique nor will they be able to offer such an exceptional case. Therefore, the bailout of The Big Three will not set a bad precedent.
con_4_1	Moral hazard: US auto bailout would reward failure	 Moral hazard: US auto bailout would reward failure Steven Pearlstein. "The Road to a Bailout They Don't Deserve". The Washington Post. 3 Sept 2008 - "Not only are the Big Three not deserving, but to help them out of their current predicament would also set a lousy precedent in a market-driven economy where the possibility of earning great wealth is supposed to be balanced against the possibility of failure. For the government to step in and put up $50 billion in loans to try to save the Big Three auto companies, after having done little or nothing to save the jobs of steelworkers and shoemakers and furniture craftsmen, would be patently unfair."
con_4_2	Auto bailout will encourage other companies to seek bailouts	 Auto bailout will encourage other companies to seek bailouts If the auto industry is given aid, other industries and companies will have a good case for seeking aid as well, and will take advantage of the opportunity. A bailout of the auto industry, therefore, sets a bad precedent. 
con_4_3	Auto bailout encourages special-interest deal-making	 Auto bailout encourages special-interest deal-making Daniel J. Mitchell. "Commentary: Say no to the auto bailout". CNN. 13 Nov. 2008 - "When politicians grant special favors to a certain industry or a particular union, such decisions necessarily mean that market forces are being replaced by special-interest deal-making."
headline_5	Financial bailout: Are autos as deserving of a bailout as financial firms?
pro_5_1	US autos are as deserving of bailout as Wall Street	 US autos are as deserving of bailout as Wall Street Steven Pearlstein. "The Road to a Bailout They Don't Deserve". The Washington Post. 3 Sept 2008 - "while the White House has indicated its reluctance to involve the government in the rescue of yet another industry, it may have a hard time explaining why the automakers are any less deserving of a "bailout" than Wall Street investment banks or Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac."  
con_5_1	Financial bailout was far more important than auto aid	 Financial bailout was far more important than auto aid. David Brooks. "Bailout to Nowhere". New York Times. 18 Nov. 2008 - "This is a different sort of endeavor than the $750 billion bailout of Wall Street. That money was used to save the financial system itself. It was used to save the capital markets on which the process of creative destruction depends [...] Granting immortality to Detroit's Big Three does not enhance creative destruction. It retards it. It crosses a line, a bright line."
headline_6	Management: Have the big three been egregiously mismanaged?
pro_6_1	US carmakers have been making the transition to efficient cars	 US carmakers have been making the transition to efficient cars "Editorial: Big 3's critics have got the facts wrong". DetNews.com. 18 Nov. 2008 - "It's not only politicians who are perpetuating the myth that Detroit just discovered the world has changed [...] The facts suggest something different. While the industry initially lagged Honda and Toyota in fuel efficiency, General Motors has 18 models in its portfolio today that get 30 miles per gallon or more, and 11 of the last 13 new products and 18 of the next 19 will be cars or crossovers, and not pickup trucks or SUVs. Its new offerings, including the Chevrolet Malibu and Saturn Aura, have swept the automotive awards the past two years."
pro_6_2	US autos didn't build green cars because Americans wouldn't buy them	 US autos didn't build green cars because Americans wouldn't buy them Kate McLeod. "Help Detroit!". Wow O Wow. 2 Dec. 2008 - "They didn’t build green cars," you say? Well, we wanted pickups and SUVS. It just so happens that we liked pickups and SUVs, and they are still the best-selling vehicles. Sure, Detroit should have built better-looking, better-performing and better-quality cars — but how can we blame them for selling us what we wanted? By the way, today’s Detroit cars are pretty good — from the Ford Mustang to the Chevy Malibu to the Chrysler minivan — still the best-selling minivan in the world. 
pro_6_3	Financial crisis is to blame for much of US auto collapse	 Financial crisis is to blame for much of US auto collapse "Auto, banking woes rattle the globe". The Gazette (Montreal). 19 Nov. 2008 - "Automakers have been hit hard by a collapse in consumer spending triggered by the U.S. housing crash and exacerbated by rising unemployment and months of soaring gasoline prices."
pro_6_4	Unexpected oil prices share blame for auto failures	 Unexpected oil prices share blame for auto failures Kate McLeod. "Help Detroit!". Wow O Wow. 2 Dec. 2008 - "It is easy to list the lame decisions that brought Detroit to its knees [...] True, they did this to themselves, but not entirely. Others can share the blame[...]Detroit didn’t cause the high gas prices, the subprime-mortgage mess or the stock-market collapse. All those led to the collapse of the auto business. Greedy Wall Streeters and bankers and a government that shut its eyes caused the problem. Detroit is paying the price for their mistakes."
pro_6_5	Poor US trade protection contributed to auto collapse	 Poor US trade protection contributed to auto collapse Kate McLeod. "Help Detroit!". Wow O Wow. 2 Dec. 2008 - "Washington caused part of the problem by letting Japan manipulate its currency so it could sell cars cheap here. Foreigners have a hard time selling cars in Japan and there are no foreign factories. They kept us out and invaded here and Washington kept quiet about it."
pro_6_6	US consumers are partly responsible for failed autos	 US consumers are partly responsible for failed autos. David Lazarus. "Bail out Big Three? Sure, with conditions". Los Angeles Times. 16 Nov. 2008 - "many of us contributed indirectly to the automakers' financial woes by choosing "foreign" vehicles -- a choice influenced by a perception, warranted or not, that Japanese and European cars are better than their American counterparts."
con_6_1	US autos forgot product development; don't deserve bailout	 US autos forgot product development; don't deserve bailout Bill Steigerwald. "Don't Bail Out the Big Three". Town Hall. 17 Nov. 2008 - "On the product side, management demonstrated an egregious failure of leadership by never envisioning the day when SUVS and big trucks would fall out of favor. In the 1980s, the Big Three made predominantly cars. And over a 20-year period they have shifted to predominately SUVs and trucks. I think in 2006 about 75 percent of Ford's output were big trucks and SUVs; slightly smaller for Chrysler and GM. Now those are high-profit margin cars for them, so I can understand why they would want to produce those. But you have to diversify your products and you can't just rely on trucks and SUVs."
con_6_2	US autos shirked fuel standards, don't deserve bailout	 US autos shirked fuel standards, don't deserve bailout "Saving Detroit From Itself". New York Times. 17 Nov 2008 -  "Detroit’s problems are mostly of its own making[...]The automakers hitched their fate to gas-guzzling trucks, and they obstinately refused to acknowledge that oil is a finite resource and that burning it limitlessly is harming the planet. They lobbied strenuously against tighter fuel-efficiency standards. That wrongheadedness did them in as gas prices spiked and consumers flocked to energy-efficient cars made by Toyota and Honda." 
con_6_3	Blame for auto failures is on management, not outside factors	 Blame for auto failures is on management, not outside factors There are many successful car companies in the world today that have had to deal with the same factors facing the Detroit automakers. These factors, therefore, cannot be blamed for the failures of the US auotmakers.
con_6_4	Public opinion is against an auto bailout	 Public opinion is against an auto bailout Ben Rooney. "Poll: 61% oppose auto bailout". CNN Money. 3 Dec. 2008 - "Survey shows that Americans think federal aid for the Big Three is unfair and won't help the economy." 
headline_7	Unions: Have the auto unions been appropriately managed?
pro_7_1	US autos have already significantly cut labor costs	 US autos have already significantly cut labor costs "Editorial: Big 3's critics have got the facts wrong". The Detroit News. 18 Nov. 2008 - "Newsweek commentator Robert Samuelson writes that back-breaking contracts with the United Auto Workers make the Big Three uncompetitive. But the historic contracts signed with the UAW last year will drastically reduce labor costs in 2010 and will offload most of the pension and health care costs to the union. Entry-level workers in Big Three plants will make considerably less than their counterparts in foreign-owned facilities."
pro_7_2	US auto labor wages not to blame for automaker's failures	 US auto labor wages not to blame for automaker's failures Norman De Bono. "Workers not to blame for auto industry crisis". Fort Frances Times Online. 27 Nov. 2008 - "It’s not about union wages, CAW economist Jim Stanford said. It is about the inability of banks to lend money in the U.S [...] “We are hearing a lot of negative rhetoric every day about union wages,” said Dave MacArthur, chairman of the Sterling Truck plant in St. Thomas, Ont., which is closing in March 2009. “I even heard from my own mother that unions make too much money, but now we can communicate to our members what the truth is.” [...] Wages and benefits of auto workers here are comparable to those in the U.S and lower than many European nations and Japan, said Stanford [...] “No convincing economic case can be made that labour costs are the cause of the Big Three’s global decline. CAW members can work without wages for one year and it will offset the operating losses of the Big Three for 11 days,” he said."
pro_7_3	Class bias influenced reluctance to help Detroit	 Class bias influenced reluctance to help Detroit The belief that US autoworkers are paid too much stems from a class bias that those that work with their hands should not be paid any wage that would allow them to transcend the middle or lower classes.
con_7_1	US autos have failed to control labor cost	 US autos have failed to control labor cost Mitt Romney. "Let Detroit Go Bankrupt". New York Times. 18 Nov 2008 - "I have several prescriptions for Detroit’s automakers. First, their huge disadvantage in costs relative to foreign brands must be eliminated. That means new labor agreements to align pay and benefits to match those of workers at competitors like BMW, Honda, Nissan and Toyota. Furthermore, retiree benefits must be reduced so that the total burden per auto for domestic makers is not higher than that of foreign producers. That extra burden is estimated to be more than $2,000 per car. Think what that means: Ford, for example, needs to cut $2,000 worth of features and quality out of its Taurus to compete with Toyota’s Avalon. Of course the Avalon feels like a better product — it has $2,000 more put into it. Considering this disadvantage, Detroit has done a remarkable job of designing and engineering its cars. But if this cost penalty persists, any bailout will only delay the inevitable."
con_7_2	Bailout would be wasted on auto unions	 Bailout would be wasted on auto unions Bailout may be entirely wasted on paying exorbitant employee benefits. This will not help US autos compete and survive long-term.
headline_8	Government loan: Is a government loan to US autos a good idea?
pro_8_1	Autos are seeking a government loan not a bailout	 Autos are seeking a government loan not a "bailout" Jim Seta, a worker for supplier SKF. - "This is not a bailout. This is a loan that will help us recover for the future."[1] 
pro_8_2	US should make low interest loans to automakers	 US should make low interest loans to automakers Steven Pearlstein. "The Road to a Bailout They Don't Deserve". The Washington Post. 3 Sept 2008 - "the best of a set of bad options might be for the government to step in and provide the Big Three with low-interest long-term loans, just as it did years ago with Lockheed and Chrysler. The government should insist that its loans get first priority and be used only for investment in new technology that can be shared with competitors, or in new plants and equipment that could be sold to other car companies in the event of a bankruptcy. The government might also insist on further cuts in shareholder dividends, executive salaries, blue-collar wages and retiree benefits, at least until the current crisis has passed." 
con_8_1	Low-interest loans to automakers will not solve their problems.	Low-interest loans to automakers will not solve their problems. The automobile makers have greater problems than a simple lack of liquidity. They have been on a downward spiral for years. Giving them money will not all of a sudden makes things better. 
con_8_2	Low-interest loans are just another liability for car-makers.	Low-interest loans are just another liability for car-makers. While there are some advantages to low-interest loans, the fundamental problem is the same; it adds another liability on-top of existing liabilities for the US automakers to have to deal with.
headline_9	Nationalization: Should US autos be nationalized?
pro_9_1	US government should nationalize US automakers	 US government should nationalize US automakers Matthew F. Pawa. "Saving Detroit - from itself". The Boston Globe. 16 Nov. 2008 - "Congress is poised to enact a massive taxpayer bailout of GM, Chrysler, and Ford. Congressman Barney Frank is charged with crafting the emergency legislation. Our leaders apparently believe they have only two bad choices: do nothing and let the domestic automobile industry die, or postpone the inevitable by throwing good money after bad.
con_9_1	Nationalization of US automakers would increase US debt.	Nationalization of US automakers would increase US debt. The US debt is already absurdly high. Nationalization of the US auto industry would add to this debt significantly, which is something that should be avoided, particularly when one examines the effect it would have on US monetary policy. 
con_9_2	Nationalization of US autos wrongly advances socialism in the US.	Nationalization of US autos wrongly advances socialism in the US. The US is already leaning toward socialism significantly with its major $700 billion bailout. Nationalizing the auto industry would further this unfortunate series of events.
headline_10	National security: Are US automakers key to US national security?
pro_10_1	Auto companies key to US energy security	 Auto companies key to US energy security Jennifer M. Granholm. "Save automakers to help economy and security". CNN.com. 13 Nov. 2008 - "why not just let General Motors, Chrysler and Ford go under? As the governor of Michigan, the home of the U.S. auto industry, it's a question I get asked every day. Letting the auto industry disappear will be devastating -- not just to Michigan, but to the entire nation. It will make our national economy even worse, eliminate our ability to achieve energy independence and weaken our national security."
pro_10_2	Auto companies are key to US military during war	 Auto companies are key to US military during war The chief executive for Chrysler LLC, Robert Nardelli, told the Senate on Tuesday that crippling the auto industry "would undermine our nation's ability to respond to military challenges and would threaten our national security."[2]
con_10_1	US automakers no longer essential to US security	 US automakers no longer essential to US security Richard Lardner. "Automakers: Rescue a matter of U.S. security". Associated Press. 19 Nov. 2008 - "Desperate for a $25 billion government rescue package, U.S. automakers and their allies in Washington are warning that U.S. national security would be harmed if Detroit goes under and takes its vast chain of parts suppliers along with it [...] Truth is, that argument is a tough sell. General Motors, Ford and Chrysler long ago exited the defense business. Many of their suppliers make the axles, transmissions and engines used on military vehicles, but defense experts see little risk to the armed forces beyond paying higher prices [...] 'It's a stretch, quite frankly,' said retired Army Lt. Gen. John Caldwell, chairman of the National Defense Industrial Association's combat vehicles division. 'I think they're grasping at straws.'"
headline_11	American identity: Are the US autos important to America's sense of identity?
pro_11_1	Bailout will preserve place of autos in American identity	 Bailout will preserve place of autos in American identity Kate McLeod. "Help Detroit!". Wow O Wow. 2 Dec. 2008 - "You know something? Maybe we’ll lend them money and they won’t make it anyway. But these companies were pretty good to us for a long time. They won the Second World War by making us the Arsenal of Democracy. They built the cars we wanted. Raise your hand if your heart doesn’t skip a beat every time you see a pristine ’57 Chevy V-8 convertible?"
con_11_1	Automakers are not fundamental to American identity	 Automakers are not fundamental to American identity David Lazarus. "Bail out Big Three? Sure, with conditions". Los Angeles Times. 16 Nov. 2008 - "what is an American car? I drive a Chrysler PT Cruiser. It was manufactured in Mexico by Mexican autoworkers. Is my Chrysler more American than a Toyota manufactured at a U.S. plant by American workers?" 
con_11_2	Buying from foreign car companies supports American workers.	Buying from foreign car companies supports American workers. If you want to buy an American-made car, go buy a Toyota or Volkswagon, or BMW.  Many foreign companies make their cars here because of America's legendary work attitude. A bailout will just kill that work ethic even more than it already has been. 
headline_12	Environment: Would aiding the US auto industry help the environment?
pro_12_1	Bailout allows US autos to produce needed green cars	 Bailout allows US autos to produce needed green cars Al Gore wrote in a November 9th, 2008 New York Times editorial, "we should help America’s automobile industry (not only the Big Three but the innovative new start-up companies as well) to convert quickly to plug-in hybrids that can run on the renewable electricity that will be available."[3]
con_12_1	Bailout of autos will take money from green economy.	Bailout of autos will take money from green economy. Bailout of autos will take money away from the green economy in the sense that it will make it more difficult for the government to subsidize and invest in the emerging green economy. 
con_12_2	Non-American automakers are better suppliers of green cars.	Non-American automakers are better suppliers of green cars. Foreign automakers have been much better at producing fuel efficient vehicles than US automakers. European and Japanese car companies have been producing 35 mpg cars for years, and are set to produce 45 MPG cars by roughly 2015. It is better, in the context of global warming, to rely on these "greener" automakers than on US automakers.
