title	Infant male circumcision
question	Is male circumcision beneficial and/or ethically sound?
headline_1	Infant health: Is circumcision safe and healthy for infants?
pro_1_1	Circumcision better done as infant than later in life	 Circumcision better done as infant than later in life Edgar J. Schoen, MD, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics. "Risk and Complications of Circumcision". Opposing Views: "Newborns are metabolically best suited for the operation, they heal very quickly, and the surgery is most easily done at this age, with the lowest complication rate. Complications in infants are generally slight with an incidence of about 0.2-0.4 %. At older ages the procedure takes longer, healing is slower and the complication rate, with generally mild problems, is about 10 times higher at 2-4%."
pro_1_2	Circumcision is sometimes a necessary emergency procedure	 Circumcision is sometimes a necessary emergency procedure Dr David Hawker. "The Benefits of Male Circumcision". CircInfo.com. March 2004 - "When does circumcision become necessary? There are a few situations where it is clearcut. If there is only a small opening in the foreskin so that passing urine is difficult, or when the foreskin is painful to pull back during an erection or won't return forward again. The latter is an emergency situation needing urgent surgery to avoid really serious consequences."
pro_1_3	Complications from circumcision stem only from faulty surgery	 Complications from circumcision stem only from faulty surgery Philip G. Klotz. "In Defence of Circumcision". Canadian Medical Association. 9 Oct. 1966 - "I am convinced that most of the current difficulties that follow routine circumcision stem from the improper use of the Gomco clamp and the Plastibell technique[...]Circumcision should not be abandoned because it has been poorly performed in the past as a result of reliance on mechanical gadgets rather than sound surgical principles. It is my belief that adequate surgical circumcision of newborns should be a routine."
pro_1_4	Circumcision has sufficient medical benefits to be routine	 Circumcision has sufficient medical benefits to be routine "Task force says circumcision has benefit". Science News. 11 Mar. 1989 - "Marking a subtle but significant change of view, the American Academy of Pediatrics this week concluded there are "medical benefits and advantages" to circumcision. The nation's largest pediatric organization stopped short of recommending the procedure, which involves the surgical removal of foreskin from the penis. But the new statement, the first from the academy in five years of heated debate on the topic, represents a departure from past statements declaring circumcision has "no absolute medical indications." The percentage of boys circumcised as newborns has fallen from about 95 percent in the 1960s to about 60 percent in 1978, in part because of a growing movement among parents and some physicians emphasizing the shortage of documented medical benefits."
pro_1_5	Circumcision is akin to vaccination of infants	 Circumcision is akin to vaccination of infants Dr. Brian Morris, Professor of Molecular Medical Sciences. "Circumcision Should Be Routine; is Akin to a Safe Surgical ‘Vaccine’". Opposing Views] - "Circumcision is a simple surgical procedure that removes the foreskin, which is a sleeve of skin covering the tip of the penis. Parents have the legal right to authorize circumcision. In order to make an informed decision, they should carefully consider the benefits and risks.
con_1_1	Circumcision always risks permanent injury and disfigurement	 Circumcision always risks permanent injury and disfigurement Paul M. Fleiss, MD. "The Case Against Circumcision". Mothering. Winter 1997 - "Circumcision is always risky: Circumcision always carries the risk of serious, even tragic, consequences. Its surgical complication rate is one in 500.48 These complications include uncontrollable bleeding and fatal infections.49 There are many published case reports of gangrene following circumcision.50 Pathogenic bacteria such as staphylococcus, Proteus, Pseudomonas, other coliforms, and even tuberculosis can cause infections leading to death.51, 52 These organisms enter the wound because it provides easy entry, not because the child is predisposed to infection."
con_1_2	Faulty circumcision can result in loss of penis	 Faulty circumcision can result in loss of penis There are instances in which botched circumcisions have resulted in the complete loss of the penis.
con_1_3	Other methods than circumcision can reduce risk of foreskin infection.	Other methods than circumcision can reduce risk of foreskin infection. Infant circumcision has only one possible benefit before the onset of sexual activity: circumcised boys appear to have lower rates of urinary tract infections. I agree with the Swedish doctors who argued 20 years ago that this is not a reason to remove the foreskin, but rather to colonize newborns with good bacteria, to make it harder for bad bacteria to get a toehold.
con_1_4	Swelling of infant foreskin is natural	 Swelling of infant foreskin is natural Rosemary Romberg. "Circumcision - The Painful Dilemma. Chapter Eleven: Complications of Circumcision (Condensed)". Bergin & Garvey Publishers, Massachusetts. 1985 - "The foreskin of the intact infant can occasionally become reddened and swollen. Some doctors believe that this is an indication for immediate circumcision. … In actuality the swollen, red foreskin is performing its function of protecting the sensitive glans from more painful and troublesome irritation."
con_1_5	Circumcision creates risk of infections in infants	 Circumcision creates risk of infections in infants Any laceration on an infant poses a serious risk of infection. Circumcision creates a significant laceration on the infant, opening the door to serious infections and subsequent risk of illness and even death.
con_1_6	Circumcisions often remove too much foreskin	 Circumcisions often remove too much foreskin This can result in a shortened and deformed penis, as well as pain during sex.
con_1_7	Circumcision can result in a concealed penis	 Circumcision can result in a "concealed penis" This is a situation in which, following the circumcision, the penis retracts back into the body, out of view. This can be a permanent issue if not resolved immediately by additional surgery.
con_1_8	Circumcision can result in urethral fistula	 Circumcision can result in urethral fistula Rosemary Romberg. "Circumcision - The Painful Dilemma. Chapter Eleven: Complications of Circumcision (Condensed)". 1985 - "A fistula is an abnormal opening in any part of the body. A urethral fistula is a hole going from the side of the male urethra to the outside of the penis. Usually the fistula occurs on the underside. This can develop as a result of circumcision. It results either from accidental crushing of the urethra by the circumcision clamp, an abnormality in the urethra, or from a stitch placed in the underside of the penis to control excessive bleeding at the site of the frenulum."
con_1_9	Circumcision can cause hemorrhaging and death	 Circumcision can cause hemorrhaging and death Hemorrhaging is defined as excessive bleeding. Because circumcision involves the cutting of tissue as well as significant veins and even arteries, it can result in severe bleeding, hemorrhaging and even death.
con_1_10	Circumcision can cause sleep apnea in infants	 Circumcision can cause sleep apnea in infants
con_1_11	Circumcision entails risk of pulmonary embolism	 Circumcision entails risk of pulmonary embolism
con_1_12	Circumcision does not have sufficient medical justifications	 Circumcision does not have sufficient medical justifications
con_1_13	General statements of opposition to circumcision	 General statements of opposition to circumcision
headline_2	Adult health: Is a circumcised penis healthy through adulthood?
pro_2_1	Non-circumcision can result in many complications	 Non-circumcision can result in many complications Philip G. Klotz. "In Defence of Circumcision". Canadian Medical Association. 9 Oct. 1966 - "I am impressed by the complications of non-circumcision, particularly acute paraphimosis, chronic phimosis, penile carcinoma and papillomata about the prepuce."
pro_2_2	The uncircumcised often suffer from penis infections	 The uncircumcised often suffer from penis infections The foreskin can trap bacteria and give rise to infections of the penis.
pro_2_3	Circumcision helps prevent balantis in the penis	 Circumcision helps prevent balantis in the penis "Sexual Health: Circumcision". WebMD. 1 Feb. 2006 - "Prevention of balanitis (inflammation of the glans) and balanoposthitis (inflammation of the glans and foreskin)."
pro_2_4	Circumcision helps prevent phimosis	 Circumcision helps prevent phimosis "Sexual Health: Circumcision". Web MD. 1 Feb. 2006 - "Prevention of phimosis (the inability to retract the foreskin) and paraphimosis (the inability to return the foreskin to its original location)."
pro_2_5	Circumcision helps protect against cancer of the penis	 Circumcision helps protect against cancer of the penis Dr David Hawker. "The Benefits of Male Circumcision". CircInfo.com. March 2004 - "Some older men develop cancer of the penis - about 1 in 1000 - fairly rare, but tragic if you or your son are in that small statistic. Infant circumcision gives almost 100% protection, and young adult circumcision also gives a large degree of protection."
pro_2_6	Circumcision reduces the risk of prostate cancer	 Circumcision reduces the risk of prostate cancer Dr. Brian Morris, Professor of Molecular Medical Sciences. "Here are the Main Benefits of Circumcision". Opposing Views - "Reduces by 30–50% risk of prostate cancer, which affects 1 in 6 men."
pro_2_7	Circumcision helps protect against human papilloma virus	 Circumcision helps protect against human papilloma virus Edgar J. Schoen, MD, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics. "Protection Against A Number of Sexually Transmitted Infections". Opposing Views - "2. Human Papilloma Virus (HPV). This is the most prevalent STI in the United States (US) – 6 million new cases/year. An international study involving 5 nations has shown that HPV is 3 times more commonly found on uncircumcised penises as compared to those circumcised. HPV is the cause of penile, cervical and anogenital cancers."
pro_2_8	Circumcision helps protect against chlamydia	 Circumcision helps protect against chlamydia Edgar J. Schoen, MD, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics. "Protection Against A Number of Sexually Transmitted Infections". Opposing Views - "3. Chlamydia is second in prevalence to HPV as an STI in the US. Women sexual partners of uncircumcised men are 5 times more likely to have high antibody titers to Chlamydia as the partners of circumcised men. Chlamydia is a leading cause of female infertility."
pro_2_9	Circumcision helps protect against syphilis	 Circumcision helps protect against syphilis Edgar J. Schoen, MD, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics. "Protection Against A Number of Sexually Transmitted Infections". Opposing Views: "4. Syphilis has long been known to be more common in uncircumcised men. Easy tearing of the delicate inner foreskin lining during intercourse offers entry to the spirochete."
pro_2_10	Circumcision helps prevent chancroids	 Circumcision helps prevent chancroids Edgar J. Schoen, MD, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics. "Protection Against A Number of Sexually Transmitted Infections". Opposing Views "5. Chancroid. Less lethal than syphilis but prevalent in under developed countries. During the Korean War, 90% of chancroid cases in US soldiers occurred in the 30% who weren’t circumcised."
pro_2_11	Circumcision helps prevent herpes  Circumcision helps prevent herpes Edgar J. Schoen, MD, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics. "Protection Against A Number of Sexually Transmitted Infections". Opposing Views: "6. Herpes simplex. A recent study showed that circumcision reduces the acquisition of genital herpes by 25%." 
pro_2_12	Circumcision helps protect against kidney infections	 Circumcision helps protect against kidney infections
con_2_1	Uncircumcised Europeans do not experience significant health problems.	Uncircumcised Europeans do not experience significant health problems. The vast majority of continental European men who are not Moslems are intact. If being intact leads to worse health outcomes, comparing data from Europe and America would reveal that. I know of no such comparison, except one: the circumcised USA has the highest frequency of HIV positive individuals in the OECD.
con_2_2	Most male sexual health problems stem from irresponsible sex, not circumcision.	Most male sexual health problems stem from irresponsible sex, not circumcision. It is absolutely essential to always use a condom during casual sexual encounters and extramarital affairs. Having no foreskin is "healthy" in the trivial sense that nothing can go wrong with an absent organ. Parents should not assume that their sons will be sexually irresponsible in a way that will defy their authority, but instead should teach their sons to respect the opposite sex and themselves. And failing that, to use a condom!
con_2_3	The foreskin is a brilliant product of human evolution	 The foreskin is a brilliant product of human evolution Paul M. Fleiss, MD. "The Case Against Circumcision". Mothering. Winter 1997 - "Millions of years of evolution have fashioned the human body into a model of refinement, elegance, and efficiency, with every part having a function and purpose. Evolution has determined that mammals' genitals should be sheathed in a protective, responsive, multipurpose foreskin. Every normal human being is born with a foreskin. In females, it protects the glans of the clitoris; in males, it protects the glans of the penis. Thus, the foreskin is an essential part of human sexual anatomy."
con_2_4	Circumcision eliminates foreskin's many protective functions	 Circumcision eliminates foreskin's many protective functions Paul M. Fleiss, MD. "The Case Against Circumcision". Mothering. Winter 1997 - "Protection: Just as the eyelids protect the eyes, the foreskin protects the glans and keeps its surface soft, moist, and sensitive. It also maintains optimal warmth, pH balance, and cleanliness. The glans itself contains no sebaceous glands-glands that produce the sebum, or oil, that moisturizes our skin.11 The foreskin produces the sebum that maintains proper health of the surface of the glans."
con_2_5	Circumcision is not a good solution to phimosis of foreskin	 Circumcision is not a good solution to phimosis of foreskin Phimosis is a situation in which the foreskin has difficulty retracting or returning over the head of the penis due to abnormally tight foreskin. This, however, can be solved by other means than circumcision. In addition, doctors often mistaken the natural state of the infants foreskin (which does not retract until later years) as phimosis, and subsequently mistakenly opt to circumcise the infant.
con_2_6	Circumcision can cause skin bridge on penis	 Circumcision can cause "skin bridge" on penis Rosemary Romberg. "Circumcision - The Painful Dilemma. Chapter Eleven: Complications of Circumcision (Condensed)". Bergin & Garvey Publishers, Massachusetts. 1985 - "'Skin bridge' can result from circumcision. It is a complication in healing of the wound, by which a piece of skin from the shaft of the penis has become attached to the glans, or another point along the shaft, forming a 'bridge' that must be surgically corrected."
con_2_7	Circumcision industry drives false medical justifications	 Circumcision industry drives false medical justifications Paul M. Fleiss, MD. "The Case Against Circumcision". Mothering. Winter 1997 - "Most parents are pressured to hand their baby sons over to a stranger, who, behind closed doors, straps babies down and cuts their foreskins off. The billion-dollar-a-year circumcision industry has bombarded Americans with confusing rhetoric and calculated scare tactics."
con_2_8	Ideologies drive false medical justifications for circumcision	 Ideologies drive false medical justifications for circumcision Circumcision has been driven by a religious and other ideologies that have, for example, considered masturbation a sin and circumcision a solution to this sin. Medical studies and conclusions are often driven by a desire to justify these ideological positions.
headline_3	HIV: Can circumcision help reduce the risk of HIV transmission?
pro_3_1	Circumcision reduces the risk of HIV infection	 Circumcision reduces the risk of HIV infection Sabin Russell, Chronicle Medical Writer. "Male circumcision shows promise as defense against HIV transmission". San Francisco Chronicle. 14 Dec. 2006 - "separate studies in Kenya and Uganda [in 2006] were financed by the National Institutes of Health and compared HIV infection rates between groups of circumcised and uncircumcised men and teenage boys.[...] an NIH safety panel examined interim results and found that the uncircumcised men in both studies were becoming infected at twice the rate of the men who had the procedure. The panel concluded it would be unethical to allow the experiments to continue until mid-2007 as planned without offering the surgery to the uncircumcised group."
con_3_1	Circumcision is a rare practice in the world	 Circumcision is a rare practice in the world Paul M. Fleiss, MD. "The Case Against Circumcision". Mothering. Winter 1997 - "How Common Is Circumcision? Circumcision is almost unheard of in Europe, South America, and non-Muslim Asia. In fact, only 10 to 15 percent of men throughout the world are circumcised, the vast majority of whom are Muslim.29 The neonatal circumcision rate in the western US has now fallen to 34.2 percent.30 This relatively diminished rate may surprise American men born during the era when nearly 90 percent of baby boys were circumcised automatically, with or without their parents' consent."
con_3_2	Condoms/education are better than circumcision against HIV	 Condoms/education are better than circumcision against HIV "Circumcision Falsehoods: Don't Be Conned by the Pros". National Organization of Circumcision Information. Opposing Views: "AIDS has been curbed successfully in Thailand, Senegal, and Eastern Uganda by governments taking a strong leadership role, targeting commercial sex workers and the populace with an aggressive educational campaign, and distributing free condoms. Condoms are 95 times more cost-effective than circumcision. Promoting expensive circumcisions in a continent lacking adequate food, safe water, good hygiene, and modern medical facilities, is a deadly approach, likely to exacerbate the pandemic."
con_3_3	Some falsely believe circumcision makes condom-use unnecessary	 Some falsely believe circumcision makes condom-use unnecessary "Circumcision Falsehoods: Don't Be Conned by the Pros". National Organization of Circumcision Information. Opposing Views - "Africans are lining up to be circumcised, believing they will not need condoms. Others are being blamed for the pandemic and forcibly circumcised. Coerced or forced circumcision is unethical."
con_3_4	Lower sensitivity of circumcised penis reduces condom-use	 Lower sensitivity of circumcised penis reduces condom-use
con_3_5	HIV-prevention is poor justification for neonatal circumcision	 HIV-prevention is poor justification for neonatal circumcision
con_3_6	Studies cannot prove effectiveness of infant circumcision.	Studies cannot prove effectiveness of infant circumcision. You can not conclude causation from studies on circumcision. These studies prevent a double-blind study (you can't have placebo circumcision). How do we know the circumsized men did not have less sex during the course of the study because of the initial period of recovery from the procedure? What about the psychological effects of being in the "circumsized" group of men and how that would impact a person's behavior?
headline_4	Urinary infections: Does male circumcision help or cause urinary infections?
pro_4_1	Circumcision reduces risk of urinary tract infections	 Circumcision reduces risk of urinary tract infections Dr David Hawker. "The Benefits of Male Circumcision". CircInfo.com. March 2004 - "Urinary tract infections sometimes occur in babies and can be quite serious. Circumcision in infancy makes it 10 times less likely."
con_4_1	Circumcision can cause urine burns in infant	 Circumcision can cause "urine burns" in infant Rosemary Romberg. "Circumcision - The Painful Dilemma. Chapter Eleven: Complications of Circumcision (Condensed)". 1985 - "Many infants and toddlers in diapers develop "urine burns" from contact with ammonia in urine-soaked diapers. … The destruction of the foreskin creates an abnormal state in which the glans is exposed and in constant contact with outer clothing, and for the infant, with urine soaked diapers. Ammonia burns on the glans, especially around the urinary opening, which is known as the meatus, can be a particularly troublesome problem for the circumcised male infant."
con_4_2	Circumcision can cause urinary retention in infants	 Circumcision can cause urinary retention in infants This is where, in the hours and days following a circumcision, an infant is unable to urinate. This can have damaging consequences.
headline_5	Pain: Is it acceptable that circumcision is painful for infants?
pro_5_1	There is good pain relief for infant circumcision	 There is good pain relief for infant circumcision Deborah Stead. "Circumcision's Pain and Benefits Re-Examined". New York Times. 2 Mar. 1999 - "The American Academy of Pediatrics, which issued a new circumcision policy yesterday...says that if parents do circumcise a son, for cultural, religious or medical reasons, relieving pain is essential. "Recent studies show that numbing creams and injections are safe and effective, the report says."
pro_5_2	Pain of neonatal circumcision helps avoid future suffering.	Pain of neonatal circumcision helps avoid future suffering. It is acceptable to inflict some pain on an individual as a means to avoid future pain. A good example is vaccination, in which the pain of the needle is justified by the future avoidance of suffering. Another good example is a surgery to remove molars or to remove a failing appendix.
con_5_1	Circumcision wrongly inflicts severe pain on infants	 Circumcision wrongly inflicts severe pain on infants Anesthetics cannot be administered to infants due to the risks. This means that infants are subjected to a level of pain beyond what adults are allowed to tolerated; adults undergoing circumcisions are given anesthetics. It is wrong to inflict infants to this level of pain.
con_5_2	Pain of circumcision is traumatizing for infants	 Pain of circumcision is traumatizing for infants Paul M. Fleiss, MD. "The Case Against Circumcision". Mothering. Winter 1997 - "Circumcision harms the developing brain: Recent studies published in leading medical journals have reported that circumcision has long-lasting detrimental effects on the developing brain,36 adversely altering the brain's perception centers. Circumcised boys have a lower pain threshold than girls or intact boys.37 Developmental neuropsychologist Dr. James Prescott suggests that circumcision can cause deeper and more disturbing levels of neurological damage, as well."
con_5_3	Circumcision violates the trust between parent and child	 Circumcision violates the trust between parent and child
con_5_4	Crying of circumcised babies can cause complications	 Crying of circumcised babies can cause complications.
con_5_5	Pain relief for neonatal circumcision does not make it OK	 Pain relief for neonatal circumcision does not make it OK
headline_6	Individual rights: Does circumcision violate patient rights?
pro_6_1	Parents have a right to circumcise their children	 Parents have a right to circumcise their children. Viens AM (2004). "Value judgment, harm, and religious liberty". J Med Ethics 30: 241–7. 2003 - Summary: "Parents’ freedom to choose infant male circumcision is the correct policy. Individuals and groups lobbying to have infant male circumcision prohibited or restricted often argue that the practice of routinely circumcising infants is unjustified. For instance, in this issue of the journal, John Hutson argues that it is virtually impossible to justify a policy in which the medical establishment should be able to embark on a "mass circumcision" campaign of 100% of the infant male population (with the exception, of course, where it would be contraindicated by the presence of an anatomical or physiological abnormality) [see page 238].1
pro_6_2	Circumcision is akin to legal vaccination of infants	 Circumcision is akin to legal vaccination of infants Circumcision is a form of vaccination in many ways against infections and other complications that result from an uncircumcised penis. And, just as parents have a right to choose to vaccinate their children, parents have a right to choose to circumcise their children.
con_6_1	Neonatal circumcision violates the right to bodily integrity	 Neonatal circumcision violates the right to bodily integrity The Declaration of the First International Symposium on Circumcision, adopted March 3, 1989, by the General Assembly of the First International Symposium on Circumcision, states: “We recognize the inherent right of all human beings to an intact body. Without religious or racial prejudice, we affirm this basic human right."[1]
con_6_2	Infant circumcision violates the patient's right to informed consent	 Infant circumcision violates the patient's right to informed consent Paul M. Fleiss, MD. "The Case Against Circumcision". Mothering. Winter 1997 - "Circumcision violates patients' and human rights: No one has the right to cut off any part of someone else's genitals without that person's competent, fully informed consent. Since it is the infant who must bear the consequences, circumcision violates his legal rights both to refuse treatment and to seek alternative treatment."
con_6_3	Neonatal circumcision violates right to avoid inflicted pain	 Neonatal circumcision violates right to avoid inflicted pain Individuals have a right to avoid pain. Neonatal circumcision violates this right.
con_6_4	Parents lack right to choose non-therapeutic circumcision	 Parents lack right to choose non-therapeutic circumcision Parents do not have the right to inflict circumcisions on their children when the surgery is non-therapeutic and unnecessary (as it usually is).
con_6_5	Hippocratic oath obligates doctors to avoid circumcision	 Hippocratic oath obligates doctors to avoid circumcision Townsend Letter for Doctors and Patients. Doctors Opposing Circumcision. (D.O.C.). April 1996. - "The physician today has a duty to discourage circumcision and to refuse to perform it."  An organization called Doctors Opposing Circumcision"
headline_7	Care: Does a circumcised penis require less or more care?
pro_7_1	Circumcision ends need to retract foreskin to urinate	 Circumcision ends need to retract foreskin to urinate Dr David Hawker. "The Benefits of Male Circumcision". CircInfo.com. March 2004 - "Remind [your children] to pull back their foreskins whenever they pee as it helps to keep the foreskin clean. It also makes it easier to aim and assists them to avoid spraying the toilet - just as circumcision does."
pro_7_2	Separation of foreskin during puberty can be problematic.	Separation of foreskin during puberty can be problematic. During infancy, the foreskin is attached to the head of the penis and does not yet pull back. During puberty, uncircumcised boys find that their foreskin begins to separate from the head of the penis. This process can be disturbing for children, as they come to believe something is going wrong. This can be particularly problematic and damaging to the penis if the child decides to forcefully separate the foreskin from the head before it is naturally ready. This process, therefore, introduces both psychological and physical risks.
con_7_1	The natural penis is clean and requires no special care	 The natural penis is clean and requires no special care Paul M. Fleiss, MD. "The Case Against Circumcision". Mothering. Winter 1997 - "The natural penis requires no special care. A child's foreskin, like his eyelids, is self-cleansing. For the same reason it is inadvisable to lift the eyelids and wash the eyeballs, it is inadvisable to retract a child's foreskin and wash the glans. Immersion in plain water during the bath is all that is needed to keep the intact penis clean."
con_7_2	Circumcised babies can require more motherly care	 Circumcised babies can require more motherly care Because circumcised babies often lose sleep and sometimes exhibit eradicate behavior, the mother must care for them more.
con_7_3	Myth: circumcision is necessary later if not done at birth	 Myth: circumcision is necessary later if not done at birth Mary Ray. "Myth: Circumcision Inevitable Later". 1997 -  “The overwhelming majority of uncircumcised boys never develop medical problems.” [Pantell] The fear that circumcision will be required later is unwarranted. Rates in all countries other than the U.S. are miniscule. They range from 1 in 200 in some, to as low as 1 in 600 in others."
headline_8	Appearances: Does the circumcised penis have a superior appearance?
pro_8_1	A circumcised penis looks better	 A circumcised penis looks better A circumcised penis does not have the unappealing appearance of the foreskin, which crumples up and forms a kind of snout when the penis is not erect.
pro_8_2	Circumcision improves a man's sense of confidence	 Circumcision improves a man's sense of confidence Dr David Hawker. "The Benefits of Male Circumcision". CircInfo.com. March 2004 - "6 Lots of men, and their partners, prefer the appearance of their penis after circumcision, It is odour-free, it feels cleaner, and they enjoy better sex. Awareness of a good body image is a very important factor in building self confidence."
con_8_1	Circumcision for appearance's is prerogative only of adult owner.	Circumcision for appearance's is prerogative only of adult owner. Moreover, the normal healthy body should have the right of way over attitudes, and not vice versa.
con_8_2	All circumcisions leave scaring and disfiguration	 All circumcisions leave scaring and disfiguration Paul M. Fleiss, MD. "The Case Against Circumcision". Mothering. Winter 1997 - "Circumcision disfigures: Circumcision alters the appearance of the penis drastically. It permanently externalizes the glans, normally an internal organ. Circumcision leaves a large circumferential surgical scar on the penile shaft. Because circumcision usually necessitates tearing the foreskin from the glans, pieces of the glans may be torn off, too, leaving it pitted and scarred. Shreds of foreskin may adhere to the raw glans, forming tags and bridges of dangling, displaced skin[...]Depending on the amount of skin cut off and how the scar forms, the circumcised penis may be permanently twisted, or curve or bow during erection. The contraction of the scar tissue may pull the shaft into the abdomen, in effect shortening the penis or burying it completely."
con_8_3	Circumcision always risks permanent injury and disfigurement	 Circumcision always risks permanent injury and disfigurement Beyond more cosmetic issues, the penis can be more seriously injured and disfigured in the process of circumcisions.
con_8_4	Faulty circumcision can result in loss of penis	 Faulty circumcision can result in loss of penis There are instances in which botched circumcisions have resulted in the complete loss of the penis.
headline_9	Sexuality: Does circumcision aid or harm sexual performance?
pro_9_1	Circumcision increases sexual stamina and satisfaction	 Circumcision increases sexual stamina and satisfaction. A number of studies have found that circumcised males have greater stamina (or lower rates of premature ejaculation) than uncircumcised men. The longer a man can last, the more likely he is to cause a women to orgasm or orgasm multiple times. This is more gratifying for men.
pro_9_2	Circumcision does not interfere with sexual performance	 Circumcision does not interfere with sexual performance Philip G. Klotz. "In Defence of Circumcision". Canadian Medical Association. 9 Oct. 1966 - "In my practice, there has never been the slightest suggestion that circumcision interferes in any way with sexual performance or gratification."
pro_9_3	Circumcision does not interfere with sexual pleasure	 Circumcision does not interfere with sexual pleasure "In Defense of Circumcision". New York Times, Letter to the Editor. 17 June 1990 - "Ralph Ginzburg's letter (May 13) condemning circumcision is filled with so many sensational untruths that it deserves rebuttal[...]His most ridiculous statement concerns his informal studies, when he refers to a loss of sexual pleasure that may impoverish wives and lovers. Mr. Ginzburg needs to realize that true sexual pleasure demands much interaction between two people, and if someone is dependent on a small piece of redundant skin to furnish it, he is truly impoverished."
pro_9_4	Circumcised men engage in more varied sexual activity.	Circumcised men engage in more varied sexual activity. Laumann et al. reported that circumcised men in their survey displayed greater rates of experience of various sexual practices, including oral sex, anal sex, and masturbation.[29] For example, among whites the "estimated ratio of the odds of masturbating at least once a month for circumcised men was 1.76 that for uncircumcised men." Dr. Laumann provides two explanations for the difference in sexual practices. "One is that uncircumcised men, a minority in this country, may feel a stigma that inhibits them. Another is that circumcision reduces sensitivity in the penis, leading circumcised men to try a range of sexual activities."[2]
pro_9_5	Those circumcised in adulthood note improved sex	 Those circumcised in adulthood note improved sex The reactions of uncircumcised men that became circumcised later in life is that it improved their sexual performance and pleasure. This is important group to follow because they are the only group that experienced sex with an uncircumcised and circumcised penis.
pro_9_6	Sex with uncircumcised penis can be painful for men	 Sex with uncircumcised penis can be painful for men Dr David Hawker. "The Benefits of Male Circumcision". CircInfo.com. March 2004 - "there are many other situations where circumcision helps prevent future disease or discomfort.[...]If the foreskin cannot easily be moved when the penis becomes hard, or if that causes pain - this is not only a childhood problem. At puberty, as the penis grows and masturbation begins, problems may emerge. Some men have pain on intercourse, which they then try to avoid for that reason. If so, you (and your partner) will benefit from your circumcision just as many boys do. Some men are afraid to admit to this problem, but it is curable by circumcision."
pro_9_7	Uncircumcised men often pass infections/diseases to spouses	 Uncircumcised men often pass infections/diseases to spouses Dr David Hawker. "The Benefits of Male Circumcision". CircInfo.com. March 2004 - "there are many other situations where circumcision helps prevent future disease or discomfor[...]3 Where you and your partner keep getting 'thrush' infections. Some call this 'sexual ping-pong'. One keeps passing it back to the other. Of course, you may first try creams or tablets from your doctor or chemist, but if it keeps coming back, circumcision will cure it. It did for me. The foreskin is a warm and moist incubator under which infections can easily develop."
con_9_1	Foreskin is important to sexual intercourse and pleasure	 Foreskin is important to sexual intercourse and pleasure Paul M. Fleiss, MD. "The Case Against Circumcision". Mothering. Winter 1997 - "The foreskin has numerous protective, sensory, and sexual functions[...] Erogenous Sensitivity: The foreskin is as sensitive as the fingertips or the lips of the mouth. It contains a richer variety and greater concentration of specialized nerve receptors than any other part of the penis.15 These specialized nerve endings can discern motion, subtle changes in temperature, and fine gradations of texture."
con_9_2	Circumcised and uncircumcised men have statistical equal stamina	 Circumcised and uncircumcised men have statistical equal stamina Waldinger et al. recruited 500 men (98 circumcised and 261 not-circumcised) from five countries: the Netherlands, United Kingdom, Spain, Turkey, and the United States and studied their ejaculation times during sexual intercourse. They found that circumcised men took on average 6.7 minutes to ejaculate, compared with 6.0 minutes for uncircumcised men. This difference was not statistically significant. The comparison excluded Turkey, which was significantly different from the other countries studied.[30] Commenting on the study, Sorrells et al. said "Turkish men, the vast majority of whom are circumcised, had the shortest Intravaginal ejaculation latency time (IELT)."[3]
con_9_3	Circumcision impairs sensing/avoiding premature ejaculation	 Circumcision impairs sensing/avoiding premature ejaculation "The Foreskin Has Crucial Functions". National Organization of Circumcision Information. Opposing views - "These nerve endings allow a man to modulate his sexual experience. Without them, a man may feel pleasure, but, without warning, reaches ejaculation quickly. The greatest complaint of circumcised males is premature ejaculation."
con_9_4	Circumcision shortens the penis slightly	 Circumcision shortens the penis slightly Paul M. Fleiss, MD. "The Case Against Circumcision". Mothering. Winter 1997 - "Circumcision denudes: Depending on the amount of skin cut off, circumcision robs a male of as much as 80 percent or more of his penile skin. Depending on the foreskin's length, cutting it off makes the penis as much as 25 percent or more shorter. Careful anatomical investigations have shown that circumcision cuts off more than 3 feet of veins, arteries, and capillaries, 240 feet of nerves, and more than 20,000 nerve endings.31 The foreskin's muscles, glands, mucous membrane, and epithelial tissue are destroyed, as well."
con_9_5	Circumcision can cause male impotency	 Circumcision can cause male impotency Paul M. Fleiss, MD. "The Case Against Circumcision". Mothering. Winter 1997 - "Circumcision disrupts circulation: Circumcision interrupts the normal circulation of blood throughout the penile skin system and glans. The blood flowing into major penile arteries is obstructed by the line of scar tissue at the point of incision, creating backflow instead of feeding the branches and capillary networks beyond the scar. Deprived of blood, the meatus may contract and scarify, obstructing the flow of urine.35 This condition, known as meatal stenosis, often requires corrective surgery. Meatal stenosis is found almost exclusively among boys who have been circumcised.[...]Circumcision also severs the lymph vessels, interrupting the circulation of lymph and sometimes causing lymphedema, a painful, disfiguring condition in which the remaining skin of the penis swells with trapped lymph fluid."
headline_10	Female preferences: Do females prefer circumcised penises?
pro_10_1	Women prefer cleaner circumcised penis	 Women prefer cleaner circumcised penis Many women prefer a circumcised penis. This is because they think of it as neater and cleaner. In addition, in so far as circumcision improves mens' stamina, it improves the sexual experience of women and their likelihood of orgasm.
pro_10_2	Women prefer the appearance of a circumcised penis.	Women prefer the appearance of a circumcised penis. A circumcised penis is neater. Instead of the foreskin covering the head of the penis in a crumpled form, the head of the penis is always exposed, which often arouses women.
pro_10_3	Women are more likely to orgasm with circumcised men	 Women are more likely to orgasm with circumcised men. During intercourse, the foreskin of the uncircumcised penis stays fixed against the side of the vagina, as the male thrusts in and out of his own foreskin. This feels good for the man, but provides far less stimulation for the woman. A circumcised penis does not offer this sliding action, so allows a women to enjoy the full friction of the penis entering and exiting her vagina. Women also enjoy the greater exposure and feel of the head of the penis.
pro_10_4	Circumcision results in enlargement of gland, enjoyed by women	 Circumcision results in enlargement of gland, enjoyed by women
pro_10_5	Circumcision increases sexual stamina and satisfaction	 Circumcision increases sexual stamina and satisfaction. A number of studies have found that circumcised males have greater stamina (or lower rates of premature ejaculation) than uncircumcised men. The longer a man can last, the more likely he is to cause a women to orgasm or orgasm multiple times.
pro_10_6	A cultural preference for a circumcised penis is valid.	A cultural preference for a circumcised penis is valid. Williamson et. al (1988). conclude: "Not least among the considerations is the worth of sexual preference for male circumcision within the American culture as a valid reason for continuing the practice."[4]
con_10_1	Female preferences should not dictate male mutilation.	Female preferences should not dictate male mutilation. Assume that many men found the inner labia distasteful. Would that give parents any right to have the inner labia removed with surgical scissors, at any time before a woman attained her majority?
con_10_2	Attitudes should conform to the normal body, not visa versa.	Attitudes should conform to the normal body, not visa versa. Some women prefer circumcised penises. Some prefer uncircumcised penises. There is not consensus. But, if views are supposed to conform in one direction or another, it is better that converge in the direction of the natural body, not visa versa.
con_10_3	Uncircumcised penis better stimulates women to orgasm	 Uncircumcised penis better stimulates women to orgasm "Circumcision Alters Sexual Function". National Organization of Circumcision Information. Opposing Views - "The movements and skin contact an intact man needs to reach orgasm are compatible with the movements and skin contact a woman needs to reach orgasm. The dryness, abrasion, and chafing complaints of some women, along with their inability to have an orgasm, are oftentimes complications of circumcision. A circumcised male has little lubrication of his own, and he removes much of a woman's vaginal lubrication with every outstroke. In addition, a circumcised male needs longer strokes to stimulate the small sensitive area (frenular remnant) on the underside of his penis to reach ejaculation. Each long outstroke distances him from the woman's clitoris, making it harder for her to ride the wave to orgasm."
con_10_4	Women preferring circumcised men suffer from cultural ills	 Women preferring circumcised men suffer from cultural ills Mary G. Ray. "The Sexual Preference for a Circumcised Penis and its Disadvantages". Mothers Against Circumcision. 31 Oct. 1999 - "There are American women who[...]insist that the natural male is unclean and unappealing. They say they prefer a circumcised male. These women are not unlike African men who demand that their wives be circumcised. This common bond between African men and American women demonstrates an ignorant intolerance for natural genitals. Both cultures are unmindful that circumcision hurts them as well. Cutting the genitals of either gender modifies the sexual experience of the person cut as well as their sexual partners. Meanwhile, in other cultures, Europe for example, where the circumcised penis is the exception, women say they prefer a natural penis. It is natural to assume the idea that we prefer what is familiar to us. 'in other cultures, Europe for example, where the circumcised penis is the exception, women say they prefer a natural penis.'"
headline_11	Smegma: Is it a good or bad thing that circumcision eliminates smegma?
pro_11_1	Smegma in uncircumcised penis produces unattractive smell/taste.	Smegma in uncircumcised penis produces unattractive smell/taste. Smegma is an excretion that gathers underneath the foreskin. It produces a foul oddor as well as taste, which can be exceedingly off-putting to women.
con_11_1	Mobile adult foreskin is very easy to clean.	Mobile adult foreskin is very easy to clean. This question is pointless, because once the foreskin becomes fully mobile, washing under it is utterly trivial. To circumcise to prevent smegma would be like ripping out the nails to prevent dirt under the nails.
con_11_2	Smegma has important natural, protective function	 Smegma has important natural, protective function Paul M. Fleiss, MD. "The Case Against Circumcision". Mothering. Winter 1997 - "The white emollient under the child's foreskin is called smegma. Smegma is probably the most misunderstood, most unjustifiably maligned substance in nature. Smegma is clean, not dirty, and is beneficial and necessary. It moisturizes the glans and keeps it smooth, soft, and supple. Its antibacterial and antiviral properties keep the penis clean and healthy. All mammals produce smegma. Thomas J. Ritter, MD, underscored its importance when he commented, 'The animal kingdom would probably cease to exist without smegma.'"
headline_12	Masturbation: How does circumcision relate to masturbation?
pro_12_1	Circumcision discourages masturbation by making it less pleasurable	 Circumcision discourages masturbation by making it less pleasurable Masturbation is considered in many cultures to be an undesirable practice. This relates to the fact that it is a form of self-gratification and because it distracts from the proper role of the male organ, which is sexual activity and procreation. Circumcision discourages masturbation because it makes it more difficult. This is because it makes it necessary to use lotion as lubrication, whereas the foreskin readily enables masturbation without lotion.
con_12_1	Circumcision is a malicious tool for discouraging masturbation	 Circumcision is a malicious tool for discouraging masturbation Paul M. Fleiss, MD. "The Case Against Circumcision". Mothering. Winter 1997 - "Circumcision started in America during the masturbation hysteria of the Victorian Era, when a few American doctors circumcised boys to punish them for masturbating. Victorian doctors knew very well that circumcision denudes, desensitizes, and disables the penis."
headline_13	Social: Are there social reasons for or against circumcision?
pro_13_1	Circumcision is a tradition worth preserving	 Circumcision is a tradition worth preserving Dr David Hawker. "The Benefits of Male Circumcision". CircInfo.com. March 2004 - "This is an operation as old as mankind, highlighted today by Jewish and Muslim tradition in which all males are usually circumcised as part of their faith. It is performed worldwide by many tribes and cultures as an initiation rite and, despite some aggressive opposition, it is routinely done at birth for the majority of boys in the USA as well as many in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, South Africa and much of the English speaking world - except, latterly, in the UK. Overall it is estimated that a quarter of the male population is circumcised - about 750 million males. They cannot all be wrong! Yet in Europe today there is widespread ignorance of its value."
pro_13_2	Opponents of circumcision have adopted nefarious tactics	 Opponents of circumcision have adopted nefarious tactics Dr David Hawker. "The Benefits of Male Circumcision". CircInfo.com. March 2004 - "The misinformation that produced the downtrend [in circumcisions] years ago is still embedded in the consciousness of some medical practitioners who hail from the 70s, and their protégés[...]In fact there have even been reports of harassment by medical professionals (such as less well-informed midwives, nurses and doctors) of new mothers, especially those that can be more readily identified because they belong to religious groups that practice circumcision, in an attempt to stop them having this procedure carried out."
pro_13_3	Circumcised foreskin can be used to combat facial aging	 Circumcised foreskin can be used to combat facial aging Foreskin is being used to develop formulas for combating facial aging.
pro_13_4	Arguments against circumcision are insufficient to change policy.	Arguments against circumcision are insufficient to change policy. AM Viens says there is "an absence of sufficient evidence or persuasive argumentation" to support changing the present policy.[5]
con_13_1	Circumcision was used to reduce fertility of certain groups	 Circumcision was used to reduce fertility of certain groups "Cutting the competition". The Economist. Jun 19th 2008 - "there are several ways it may affect fertility: most obviously, the lack of a foreskin could make insertion, ejaculation or both take longer. Perhaps long enough that an illicit quickie will not always reach fruition[...]Older men are in a position to form alliances with younger men—passing on knowledge, lending them political support and giving them access to weapons. By insisting that the young undergo genital mutilation of some form as a quid pro quo, an older married man can seek to ensure that even if he is cuckolded, he will still be the father of his wives’ children."
con_13_2	Dangerous cultural pressure exists surrounding circumcision	 Dangerous cultural pressure exists surrounding circumcision Mary G. Ray. "Like Father, Like Son". 1997 - "I am very happy for my son that he is natural. Which is more important? Having a penis that looks like mine? Or enjoying the benefits a foreskin provides? [...] It doesn’t make sense that his foreskin should arbitrarily be cut off just because they did it back when I was born. Routine circumcision is a colossal mistake. The same mistake should not be done to him simply because it was unfortunately done to me. Two wrongs don’t make a right. It’s got to stop  somewhere [...] All this concern about looking the same -- I think its rare for fathers, sons and brothers to pay much attention to each other’s penises. But if a difference is noticed, the absent foreskin can be so easily explained. They used to think removing the foreskin was necessary. Now they know, it’s not."
con_13_3	The circumcised perpetuate the practice in a form of denial	 The circumcised perpetuate the practice in a form of denial
headline_14	Religion: Do certain religions require circumcision?
pro_14_1	Romans 4:9-12 supports the practice of circumcision.	Romans 4:9-12 supports the practice of circumcision. Romans 4:9-12: "Is this blessing then on the circumcised, or on the uncircumcised also? For we say, "FAITH WAS CREDITED TO ABRAHAM AS RIGHTEOUSNESS." 10 How then was it credited? While he was circumcised, or uncircumcised? Not while circumcised, but while uncircumcised; 11 and he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith which he had while uncircumcised, so that he might be the father of all who believe without being circumcised, that righteousness might be credited to them, 12 and the father of circumcision to those who not only are of the circumcision, but who also follow in the steps of the faith of our father Abraham which he had while uncircumcised."[6]
con_14_1	Foreskin is a brilliant gift from nature and/or God.	Foreskin is a brilliant gift from nature and/or God. Foreskin has many important functions, and is a gift from natural evolution. God or nature intended for humans to have foreskin. Why would he alter these plans?
con_14_2	No right to impose religious belief in circumcision on child	 No right to impose religious belief in circumcision on child
con_14_3	Circumcision is a product of strange historical mythologies	 Circumcision is a product of strange historical mythologies From the book, Babywatching by Desmond Morris - "It started as an ancient Egyptian custom and there are wall carvings to prove it. It seems to have its origin in snake worship. The Egyptians believed that when the snake shed its skin, and emerged shiny and new again, it was undergoing rebirth. They reasoned that if, by shedding skin, the snake could become apparently immortal, then humans should follow suit. They made the simple equation: snakeskin = foreskin, and the operation began. From there it spread to many Semetic peoples, both Arabs and Jews adopting it and converting it into an act of religious faith. As the centuries passed, it became popular in other regions of the world for moral, medical, or hygenic reasons."
con_14_4	Circumcision was used to reduce fertility of certain groups	 Circumcision was used to reduce fertility of certain groups "Cutting the competition". The Economist. Jun 19th 2008 - "there are several ways it may affect fertility: most obviously, the lack of a foreskin could make insertion, ejaculation or both take longer. Perhaps long enough that an illicit quickie will not always reach fruition[...]Older men are in a position to form alliances with younger men—passing on knowledge, lending them political support and giving them access to weapons. By insisting that the young undergo genital mutilation of some form as a quid pro quo, an older married man can seek to ensure that even if he is cuckolded, he will still be the father of his wives’ children."
