title	Progressive tax vs. flat tax
question	Should there be a progressive tax system or, for example, a flat tax?
headline_1	Equality: Does progressive taxation uphold principles of equality?
pro_1_1	Progressive taxation makes all citizens sacrifice equally	 Progressive taxation makes all citizens sacrifice equally John Stuart Mill wrote in 1848: "As a government out to make no distinction of persons or classes in the strengths of their claims on it, whatever sacrifices it requires from them should be made to bear as nearly as possible with the same pressure upon all...equality of taxation, therefore, as a maxim of politics, means equality of sacrifice."[1]
pro_1_2	Progressive taxation affords individuals equal opportunity.	Progressive taxation affords individuals equal opportunity. One idea behind progressive taxation is to level the playing field so that the wealthy don't hold an iron-grasp of economic opportunity. Rather, a progressive tax system aims to enable the poor to climb the socio-economic ladder. 
con_1_1	Progressive taxes violate principal of equality before the law	  Progressive taxes violate principal of equality before the law James A. Dorn. "Ending Tax Socialism". CATO Institute. 13 Sept. 1996 - "A progressive income tax violates the very heart and soul of the Framer's Constitution of liberty. Our constitutional democracy rests on the principles that individuals are equal under the law"
con_1_2	Progressive taxation wrongly aims for equality of outcome	 Progressive taxation wrongly aims for equality of outcome Progressive tax systems wrongly aim to combat inequality in people's circumstances, aiming to produce greater equality of outcome. The main problem with this is that it does not apply a strict principle (such as equality under the law), but rather engages government in the subjective and impossible act of balancing individual rights with an effort to produce equal outcome. 
headline_2	Socialism: Is progressive taxation compatible with capitalism?
pro_2_1	Progressive taxes are not socialism or spreading the wealth	 Progressive taxes are not socialism or "spreading the wealth" Judith A. Klinghoffer. "'Spreading the Wealth' is NOT progressive taxation". Political Mavens. - "Conceptually there is a major difference between progressive taxation and "spreading the wealth" socialism. Progressive taxation assumes that the richer should pay more of the government’s expenses than the poor. It does not mean that it is the role of the government to redistribute the wealth to reduce the wealth differential between rich and poor."
pro_2_2	Progressive tax systems recognize income is partly a collective good	  Progressive tax systems recognize income is partly a collective good "For progressive taxation, or against being against it". amerikanbeat. 11 Nov. 2008 - "Wealth is a privilege for which the state is largely to thank. There is the related criticism that being 'taxed more' is a 'punishment for being successful.' Again, this is a natural enough way to look at it, if you aren’t thinking hard. Warren Buffett used to say that he could never have become a billionaire in Bangladesh. And he could only be one in the U.S. due to a whole network of conditions not of his making, and for which the government is largely to thank."
con_2_1	Progressive taxation is socialist wealth redistribution and state theft	 Progressive taxation is socialist wealth redistribution and state theft "Immorality of Progressive Income Tax". The Frugal Libertarian (Libertarian). 14 Oct. 2008 - "I am certain that most people would agree that stealing would not be considered a moral act, even if what was stolen was given to someone who needed it more than its original owner. Imagine someone walking into your home and taking $10,000 off your table, walking out the door, and giving your $10,000 to someone else. There are few who would stand for this, but every year we allow the federal government to essentially do the same thing with little more than a grumble on tax day. We would fight off a burglar in our home, but do nothing to fight off the government burglar who pilfers from our coffers."
con_2_2	Capital is created on assumption of ownership; contrary to progressivism	 Capital is created on assumption of ownership; contrary to progressivism Capital is created in the first place only via the assumption made by individuals that they can create and own that capital. Progressive taxes diminish this idea, assuming that the capital created by individuals is not entirely theirs.
con_2_3	Progressive taxation exceeds limited powers of government	 Progressive taxation exceeds limited powers of government "Immorality of Progressive Income Tax". The Frugal Libertarian (Libertarian). 14 Oct. 2008 - "how can taxes be collected in a moral manner? A moral tax would need to be neither progressive or regressive, but instead neutral and then that revenue would need to used to further 'legitimate government interest' within the limits of power and authority granted by the Constitution."
headline_3	Earned: How does the principle of earned income related to progressive taxation?
pro_3_1	Progressive taxation recognizes not all wealth is earned	 Progressive taxation recognizes not all wealth is "earned" A common argument against progressive taxes is that wealthy people earn their money, just as poorer people do, so it's unfair to alienate wealthy people with progressive taxes. Yet, not all wealth is "earned" in the sense of labor or time being expended to obtain it. Much comes from investments, rent, inheritance, or ownership of a company. 
pro_3_2	Progressive taxes adjust for random factors in wealth	 Progressive taxes adjust for random factors in wealth Robert J. Shapiro. "Why Fairness Matters: Progressive Versus Flat Taxes". Progressive Policy Institute. 1 Apr. 1996 - "progressive taxation has the better of the argument. Flat taxers may be right that it would be morally offensive to tax higher income people more heavily if differences in income reflected only how hard different people work. But income differences reflect much more than that, if only because people don't start in the same place. People are born with different talents and come to age in families, neighborhoods, and cultures with different resources to prepare them for market competition. And plain luck often plays a role." 
con_3_1	Progressive taxes violate rule that men earn what they deserve	 Progressive taxes violate rule that men earn what they deserve Edwin R. A. Seligman. "Progressive taxation in theory and practice". American Economic Association. 1894 - "Time was when the progressive tax would not have been accepted as equitable even by a majority of the poor. Traditional equity required that taxes should be levied proportionately, not progressively. This was in accordance with the belief that’ a man’s property, or his income, was an index of deserving achievement, or of value contributed in the market place to society. True, some men inherited their property or incomes—but that was something to be handled or regulated under laws of inheritance. In any case the erosion of time could be counted on to take care of the inefficient use of inherited fortune—“shirtsleeves to shirt-sleeves in three generations” expressed the common wisdom in this matter of luck in the choice of one’s parents."
headline_4	Wealthy: Is a progressive tax system fair to the wealthy?
pro_4_1	Progressive taxes protect poor, don't punish rich	 Progressive taxes protect poor, don't punish rich Robert J. Shapiro. "Flat Wrong: New Tax Schemes Can't Top Old Progressive Truths". Washington Post. 24 Mar. 1996 - "The point of progressive taxation is not to penalize those who succeed, but to protect those who have not."
pro_4_2	Wealthy benefit more from system, so owe a greater tax debt	 Wealthy benefit more from system, so owe a greater tax debt George Lakoff and Bruce Budner. "Hidden Truths Of Progressive Taxes". Tom Pain. 16 Apr. 2007 - "Ordinary people just drive on the highways; corporations send fleets of trucks. Ordinary people may get a bank loan for their mortgage; corporations borrow money to buy whole companies. Ordinary people rarely use the courts; most of the courts are used for corporate law and contract disputes. Corporations and their investors — those who have accumulated enough money beyond basic needs so they can invest — make much more use, compound use, of the empowering infrastructure provided by everybody's tax money.[...]The wealthy have made greater use of the common good—they have been empowered by it in creating their wealth—and thus they have a greater moral obligation to sustain it. They are merely paying their debt to society in arrears and investing in future empowerment."
pro_4_3	Rich pay bulk of taxes because they earn bulk of national income	 Rich pay bulk of taxes because they earn bulk of national income Robert J. Shapiro. "Flat Wrong: New Tax Schemes Can't Top Old Progressive Truths". Washington Post. 24 Mar. 1996 - "Affluent people pay the bulk of federal taxes not because the system is sharply progressive, but mainly because they earn the bulk of all the income subject to tax."
pro_4_4	Progressive taxes benefit public, which benefits the wealthy	 Progressive taxes benefit public, which benefits the wealthy George Lakoff and Bruce Budner. "Hidden Truths Of Progressive Taxes". Tom Pain. 16 Apr. 2007 - "An important point often lost in this debate is an appreciation that the common wealth, which our taxes create and sustain, empowers the wealthy in myriad ways to create their wealth. We call this compound empowerment — the compounded use of the common wealth by corporations, their investors, and other wealthy individuals."
pro_4_5	Existence of corporate subsidies helps justify progressive taxes	 Existence of corporate subsidies helps justify progressive taxes Michael Parenti notes the "whole basketful of handouts” given to the business class "from federal, state and local governments…[B]illions of dollars in start-up capital, research and development funding, equity capital, bailout aid, debt financing, low-interest loans, loan guarantees, export subsidies, tax credits, and other special favors."[2]
con_4_1	Progressive taxes unfairly punish the rich and successful.	Progressive taxes unfairly punish the rich and successful. It is unfair to punish people for succeeding in society. They should be rewarded for succeeding, or at least left to reap the benefits of their success. 
con_4_2	Progressive systems unfairly force rich to pay bulk of taxes	 Progressive systems unfairly force rich to pay bulk of taxes David N. Mayer. "Wealthy Americans Deserve Real Tax Relief On Principle". Ashbrook Center. October 1999 - "The tax-cut debate has focused attention on the issue of fairness, and all Americans should seriously question whether the federal income tax is really “fair” at all. Under its so-called “progressive” rate structure, a minority of taxpayers in the upper income brackets are forced to pay the lion’s share of federal income taxes." 
con_4_3	The rich do not necessarily benefit more from taxes/system	 The rich do not necessarily benefit more from taxes/system David N. Mayer. "Wealthy Americans Deserve Real Tax Relief On Principle". Ashbrook Center. October 1999 - "there is no correlation between the amount of taxes an American pays and whatever benefits, if any, he receives; indeed, a wealthy person may get fewer government services than a poorer person."
con_4_4	Flat tax fairly has wealthy pay proportionally more in taxes.	Flat tax fairly has wealthy pay proportionally more in taxes. It is unfair that people who earn more should pay at a progressive rate. Even on a standard rate, they already pay more tax, because they have a higher taxable income. Therefore progressive tax rates are a form of double taxation, as higher earners pay tax on more income, and then at a high level. This is further unfair to them since high earners are the least likely group to benefit from much taxpayer-funded activity e.g. welfare.
con_4_5	The wealthy pay more taxes, but aren't given more voting power.	The wealthy pay more taxes, but aren't given more voting power. Justice in representation. Economic equity is sometimes used to argue against progressive taxation, on the grounds of representation being out-of-proportion to taxation: While the top 5% in income in most countries pay over half the taxes[22] they only have 5% of the voting weight. This argument can be reversed into the plutocratic case that if tax is to be progressive it should be accompanied by greater say in elections for those who contribute most.
con_4_6	Progressive taxes are unfair to the short-lived high earner	 Progressive taxes are unfair to the short-lived high earner Basketball players, for example, make substantial incomes for around eight years. They are taxed, during this period, as if this was their constant, long-term income, which means they are often left having to find other jobs later in life.
con_4_7	Progressive tax systems open door to unfair tax avoidance	 Progressive tax systems open door to unfair tax avoidance Progressive taxes are often so complicated and with so many loopholes that the wealthy are able to evade their obligations. As a result, they end up paying a smaller rate than other, less wealthy citizens. A Flat Tax would eliminate this unfair tax avoidance and force the wealthy to pay their full burden.
headline_5	Dollar utility: Does each marginal rich dollar have less utility?
pro_5_1	Progressive taxes recognize each wealthy dollar has less utility.	Progressive taxes recognize each wealthy dollar has less utility. If the utility gained from income exhibits diminishing marginal returns, as many psychologists assert (see Weber-Fechner law), then for the tax burden to be shared in a utilitarian way the tax-bill must increase non-linearly with income.
con_5_1	Progressives wrongly assume wealthy dollars have less utility	 Progressives wrongly assume wealthy dollars have less utility Friedrich A. Hayek. "Taxation and Redistribution". The Constitution of Liberty. 1960 - [One argument's] basic conception is that of the decreasing marginal utility of successive acts of consumption. In spite of, or perhaps because of, its abstract character, it has had great influence in making scientifically respectable what before had been admittedly based on arbitrary postulates.[...]Modern developments within the field of utility analysis itself have, however, completely destroyed the foundations of this argument.  It has lost its validity partly because the belief in the possibility of comparing the utilities to different persons has been generally abandoned and partly because it is more than doubtful whether the conception of decreasing marginal utility can legitimately be applied at all to income as a whole, i.e., whether it has meaning if we count as income all the advantages a person derives from the use of his resources."
headline_6	Tyranny of majority: Is it wrong to call progressive taxation this?
pro_6_1	Calling progressive taxation tyrannical is inappropriate	 Calling progressive taxation "tyrannical" is inappropriate Carl Henn. "Taxation without exacerbation". Letter to Washington Times. 30 Mar. 2008 - "Many of the richest people support progressive taxation, which provides some argument that progressive taxation isn't tyranny, but rather a policy option with which Mr. Rahn disagrees. To call these tax policies "tyranny" is sloppy. Why is it important to correct sloppy thinking? Because sloppy thinking has consequences. Revolt may be an acceptable response to tyranny. It isn't an appropriate response to mismanagement. Inflammatory rhetoric does not promote reasoned public debate."
con_6_1	Progressive taxation is a form of tyranny of the majority	 Progressive taxation is a form of tyranny of the majority James A. Dorn. "Ending Tax Socialism". CATO Institute. 13 Sept. 1996 - "If we let constitutional principles be eroded by majority rule, in the name of social justice, then both freedom and true justice will be lost. Progressive taxation is not a virtue but a vice. It presumes that the property rights of the wealthy are not as sacred as the property rights of the poor and that the values of the majority are superior to the rights of the minority."
con_6_2	Progressive taxes cause class warfare to pass tax burden	 Progressive taxes cause class warfare to pass tax burden If groups or classes feel they can pass the tax burden, at a higher rate, to other groups, they may seek to do so. This creates class warfare. 
headline_7	Poverty: Does progressive taxation help the poor?
pro_7_1	Progressive taxation applies a compassionate philosophy to poor	 Progressive taxation applies a compassionate philosophy to poor "Progressive vs. Regressive Tax Structure". Faded.org. - "The unabated greed, lack of values, and sense of community that so many Americans hold is utterly astounding to me. The materialistic, egotistical attitude of "I got mine, screw everyone else" abounds. Not only that, but it also seems a bit hypocritical to me that these arguments come most often from the "religious" right. Astonishing how quickly the beliefs and teachings of their religion fly out the window as soon as money enters into the equation. (I'll save all of my other rants about religion in general for another post.)"
pro_7_2	Progressive taxation helps combat extreme poverty	 Progressive taxation helps combat extreme poverty This is because the lowest tax band will apply to earnings beneath an initial threshold. Therefore, the less one earns, the higher percentage of one’s pay is not taxable. The cost of basic survival needs is by definition a larger proportion of a lower earner's income and therefore a certain “block” at the bottom of each income may be tax free altogether to allow for these needs.  This protection for the poorest is important, because most countries also operate customs tariffs and sales taxes, which tend to hit the poor more than the rich in terms of the proportion of their income going in indirect taxation; progressive direct taxation redresses the balance.
pro_7_3	Regressive sales tax makes progressive income tax necessary	 Regressive sales tax makes progressive income tax necessary Jacob Levy. "Progressive taxation". The Volokh Conspiracy. 19 Sep 2003 - "With lots of taxing authorities but reason to not want them all to tax income, there's going to be a tendency toward regressivity because of the use of consumption and property taxes. This creates pressure to make the income tax, where used, more progressive-- which tends to make it both more complex and more distorting." 
pro_7_4	Lifting poor with progressive tax is good for economy	 Lifting poor with progressive tax is good for economy "Progressive Taxation". Lolife. 25 June 2004 - "With a flat tax, no one could be taxed more than they make, but the taxes would still have to be fairly high on the poorest people. With a progressive tax you can generate the revenue you need while still allowing poor people the opportunity to become not-poor. This is not altruism — it’s an economic strategy to keep our economy strong by getting as many people participating in it as possible. The more poor people we turn into middle class people the easier the tax burden will be on everyone."
pro_7_5	A pure flat tax would be a major burden on the poor	 A pure flat tax would be a major burden on the poor Mark Jaquith. "Why I Support Progressive Taxation". Tempus Fugit. 18 Sept. 2005 - "you must consider the effect that a completely flat tax system would have on the poor. The people who, after buying the things they need and are left with nothing, will have a very hard time breaking that inertia. They likely won’t have time to learn new skills, because they don’t have any significant discretionary income. They have to keep going to work just to put food on the table. A tax on the basic necessities of life is a severe handicap to one’s ability to break out of that cycle. It is essentially a tax on living, which is abhorrent both from a moral standpoint (Liberals’ objection) and from an American philosophical standpoint (Conservatives’ and Liberterians’ objection)"
con_7_1	Progressive tax policies erroneously compassionate	 Progressive tax policies erroneously "compassionate" Andrew Sullivan. "'Progressive' Taxation". The Daily Dish, The Atlantic. 27 Jun 2008 - "Am I heartless? I hope not. I just don't believe that having a heart is what government should be about. It's what the rest of us should be about. This, of course, is my core disagreement with Obama who does indeed have a notion that government has a right and a duty to take money away from those whom he believes can "afford" it and give it to those who "deserve" it. I don't believe in a government with that much power and that lofty a social goal. It's also in part a disagreement with my friends, Ross and Reihan, who see government as integral to guiding the behavior and lives of the working poor."
con_7_2	Low economic growth in progressive systems hurts the poor	 Low economic growth in progressive systems hurts the poor Judith A. Klinghoffer. "Spreading the Wealth" is NOT progressive taxation". Political Mavens. - "the European experience demonstrates that Socialism, as well as Communism, stifle economic growth. Of course, no one gets hurt more by reduced economic growth than the poor. This has been proven by the economic histories of three so different ex British colonies as India, Ireland and Israel. All three adopted Socialist confiscatory tax policies and languished. All three dropped those policies and are booming."
con_7_3	Other means than tax policy should be used to help the poor	 Other means than tax policy should be used to help the poor Andrew Sullivan. "'Progressive' Taxation". The Daily Dish, The Atlantic. 27 Jun 2008 - "Government's primary concern is to raise money as efficiently and as leanly and as equally as possible. I'm happy with the government then setting up programs to assist the poor, to provide better education for those at the bottom, safety-net healthcare and better policing. i.e. to gear spending toward social ends that might help the poor the most. These are measurable, practical goods. What I'm not happy with is the assumption that tax policy should really be about redistributing wealth, and engineering substantive economic outcomes. Yes, of course, at lower income levels, a 20 percent flat income tax will be more onerous proportionally than at higher incomes. So what? Why should that even concern a government that is not aiming to socially engineer more substantive equality? and the alternative - skewing taxes to target success - is an absurd set of incentives to put into a growing society."
con_7_4	Flat tax helps lower income families get out of poverty	 Flat tax helps lower income families get out of poverty Steve Doughty. "Flat tax 'helps the poor'". Daily Mail. 11 Aug. 2006 - "Its report said: 'Flat taxes have often been seen as a means of reducing the tax burden on people with higher incomes who pay top-rate tax. However in Britain the most severe losses to the taxman from additional earnings are encountered by families on lower incomes: these stand to gain the most from a flattening of income tax rates.'[...]A flat tax has gathered support in recent years following the success of the system in encouraging economic growth in Eastern Europe. Tories flirted with the idea last year.[...]The system proposed by the Rowntree Foundation would mean families with children in 'modest to middle' income brackets seeing their income rise by 10%, while families without children in the top-earning tenth of the population would lose out by around 8%." 
con_7_5	Flat tax with exemptions has progressive effects on poor	 Flat tax with exemptions has progressive effects on poor "Class warfare and the progressive income tax". Wirkman Netizen. 28 Oct. 2008 - "you say, a flat tax is not a progressive tax! And there you would be wrong. A flat tax with one exception — the personal exemptions for the taxpaying individual, spouse, and dependents — amounts to a de facto progressive tax."
headline_8	Inequality: Does progressive taxation combat income inequality?
pro_8_1	Progressive taxation combats growing income inequality	 Progressive taxation combats growing income inequality Steve Weissman. "Spread the Wealth? Soak the Rich?". Truthout. 24 Oct. 2008 - "In terms of policy, the arguments are equally strong. Our social stability depends upon rebuilding a strong middle class and reducing the enormous gap between the rich and all the rest of us. Whether from above or below, this growing inequality threatens the survival of even our limited democracy and does nothing to increase the strength of America's economy."
con_8_1	Progressive taxes do not necessarily decrease income inequality	 Progressive taxes do not necessarily decrease income inequality A study from the libertarian Institute for Policy Innovation, which aims to reduce government intervention in the economy, has concluded that progressive taxes fail to decrease real income inequality.[24]
con_8_2	Progressive tax rates end up squeezing the middle class	 Progressive tax rates end up squeezing the middle class Michael Novak. "An Immoral Tax". Wall Street Journal. 18 Feb. 2003 - "What is lost in their "idealism" is the fact that to pay their bills, redistributionist states cannot tax only the rich. They must also tax way down into the middle class, stinging the single mom, policeman, and teacher as well. Meanwhile, many on welfare pay no income taxes at all, because they have no income. They have no income because (most often through no fault of their own) they do not work."
headline_9	Incentives: How do progressive and flat taxes affect incentives?
pro_9_1	Progressive taxation does not reduce work ethic	 Progressive taxation does not reduce work ethic Robert J. Shapiro. "Why Fairness Matters: Progressive Versus Flat Taxes". Progressive Policy Institute. 1 Apr. 1996 - "The economic theory behind progressive taxation begins by separating the tax system from the economy that provides its resources. By this view, people work and save because they need or want certain benefits. The existence of taxes does not change those needs or desires, and so should not discourage work and saving. Therefore, tax rates could reasonably rise with income without imposing additional economic costs." 
con_9_1	Progressive taxes disincentivize hard work and productivity	 Progressive taxes disincentivize hard work and productivity "Flat Tax: What Would It Do For Ireland?". Business and Finance Magazine. 5 May 2005 - "A recent study of a revenue-neutral flat tax proposal for the US (Ventura, 1999) shows that, due to the positive effects on individual incentives to invest in productivity enhancing learning and greater hours of labour supply, a flat tax system yields up to a 9% increase in the aggregate efficiency adjusted labour force.[...] In the Irish case, this is equivalent to adding over 180,000 workers with an average productivity without incurring additional social and welfare costs of actually increasing Ireland's population. The more productive the segment of population, the higher are the increases."
headline_10	Economics: Are progressive tax rates economically beneficial?
pro_10_1	Bottom-up progressive taxation leads to stronger growth	 Bottom-up progressive taxation leads to stronger growth Steve Weissman. "Spread the Wealth? Soak the Rich?". Truthout. 24 Oct. 2008 - "Who should pay what for the costs of government raises the most basic issues of fairness. But who pays also determines whether we rebuild our economy from the bottom up, as Obama promises, or continue to wait in vain for good jobs and decent wages to trickle down from John McCain's friends at the top...[Progressive taxes] can help create a more vigorous economy, one based on growing demand from the bottom to encourage investment from the top. Cutting taxes for the vast majority builds that demand, spreading wealth in a way that will create greater wealth for us all."
pro_10_2	Progressive tax rates stimulate higher consumer activity.	Progressive tax rates stimulate higher consumer activity. As income levels rise, marginal propensity to consume tend to drop. Thus it is often argued that economic demand can be stimulated by reducing the tax burden on lower incomes while raising the burden on higher incomes.
pro_10_3	More economists favor progressive taxation.	More economists favor progressive taxation. In most western European countries and the United States, advocates of progressive taxation tend to be found among the majority of economists and social scientists, many of whom believe that completely proportional taxation is not a possibility. In the U.S., the vast majority of economists (81%) support progressive taxation.[3][4]
pro_10_4	Even free-marketeer Adam Smith advocated progressive taxation	 Even free-marketeer Adam Smith advocated progressive taxation Adam Smith wrote in The Wealth of Nations: "The necessaries of life occasion the great expense of the poor. They find it difficult to get food, and the greater part of their little revenue is spent in getting it. The luxuries and vanities of life occasion the principal expense of the rich, and a magnificent house embellishes and sets off to the best advantage all the other luxuries and vanities which they possess. A tax upon house-rents, therefore, would in general fall heaviest upon the rich; and in this sort of inequality there would not, perhaps, be anything very unreasonable. It is not very unreasonable that the rich should contribute to the public expense, not only in proportion to their revenue, but something more than in that proportion."[5]
con_10_1	Changing to a flat tax can increase economic growth	 Changing to a flat tax can increase economic growth 
con_10_2	Progressive taxation reduces the savings rate in a society	 Progressive taxation reduces the savings rate in a society High-earners have a lower average propensity to consume, so shifting the tax-burden away from them will increase the aggregate savings rate, which should increase steady state growth (if the savings rate is initially below the Golden Rule savings rate).
con_10_3	Progressives shift money from entrepreneurs, capital investments	 Progressives shift money from entrepreneurs, capital investments A belief that progressive taxation shifts the total economic production of society away from capital investments (tools, infrastructure, training, research) and toward present consumption goods. This could happen because high-income earners tend to pay for capital goods (through investment activities) and low-income earners tend to purchase consumables. Smithian and neo-classical growth theory says that spending more on consumption goods and less on capital goods will slow the rise of the standard of living, and possibly even reduce it since capital goods increase future production possibilities.
con_10_4	Progressive tax systems add risk by over-concentrating tax revenues.	Progressive tax systems add risk by over-concentrating tax revenues. Progressive taxes concentrate more of a state's tax revenue around a certain social group. This concentration of taxation amongst a narrow group of taxpayers introduces a higher risk of a sudden drop in tax take, for example if a recession means lots of executive jobs are cut in a short time period."
con_10_5	Progressive taxes require a wasteful compliance.	Progressive taxes require a wasteful compliance. Progressive taxes require taxpayers to declare and demonstrate their income, and enormous government machinery to audit and enforce truthful declaration. With a flat tax, all that is required is to verify payment.The IRS currently costs the American taxpayer $11 billion a year.
headline_11	Employment: What are the employment effects of the two approaches?
pro_11_1	Progressive taxes help increase employment rate	 Progressive taxes help increase employment rate Erkki Koskelaa. "Tax progression is good for employment in popular models of trade union behaviour". Elsevier Science B.V. 1996 - Using three popular models of trade union behaviour — the monopoly union, the ‘right-to-manage’ and the efficient bargain model — as the framework for analysis, this paper provides the unambiguously negative answer that under plausible assumptions an increased tax progression lowers wages and is good for employment in all three popular models of trade union behaviour. This means that the effects of taxation appear to be very sensitive to the structure of labour markets."
pro_11_2	Progressive taxes help ease the blow of recession or unemployment.	Progressive taxes help ease the blow of recession or unemployment. A progressive tax is an automatic stabilizer in the sense that if a person were to suffer a decrease in wages due to a recession then the money regained by being in a lower tax bracket lessens this blow.
con_11_1	Progressive taxation is not necessarily good for employment	 Progressive taxation is not necessarily good for employment Clemens Fuest1 and Bernd Huber. "Is tax progression really good for employment?". Science Daily. 12 Jan. 2000 - "We show that the positive employment effect of tax progression can be generalized to a model with a positive labour supply elasticity of individual workers. However, the wage-moderating effect of tax progression does not unambiguously carry over to a world where the union may fix both wages and individual hours of work. In this framework, the union reacts to tax progression by cutting individual working time."
con_11_2	Progressive taxation can cause brain drain from countries	 Progressive taxation can cause "brain drain" from countries Progressive taxation can encourage talented workers who earn high incomes to move overseas to escape the tax system. This can create a "brain drain" effect in a country. The differential in the higher rates of tax between the United States and Europe are cited as a factor in the "brain drain" of high-earners to America in the 1960s.
headline_12	Revenue: Do progressive taxes generate more tax revenue than flat taxes?
pro_12_1	Progressive taxation increases tax revenue and social services	 Progressive taxation increases tax revenue and social services This means that increased funds are available for spending on worthwhile socially beneficial programmes, such as education, health, environmental protection, etc.
pro_12_2	Existing budgets in modern states requires progressive taxation	 Existing budgets in modern states requires progressive taxation "Progressive taxation is not the same as 'spread the wealth.'". The Right Wing Professor. 26 Oct. 2008 - "Our federal government spends roughly $3 TRILLION a year and the population is roughly 300 million, which works out to $10,000 per person per year. With a median family in the US earning around $50,000/year and having 3 members, it is clear that this family can't afford to pay its "fair share" of $30,000/year in taxes. Without a drastic slashing of the federal budget, we are forced into a progressive tax system, where by progressive I simply mean the wealthy pay more in taxes than the not so wealthy."
con_12_1	Flat tax increases revenue by reducing compliance costs and tax evasion	 Flat tax increases revenue by reducing compliance costs and tax evasion Tax evasion through the many loopholes created in progressive systems costs the state a substantial amount of revenue. A flat tax would eliminate this lost revenue. 
con_12_2	Progressive tax rates hide size and growth of government	 Progressive tax rates hide size and growth of government James A. Dorn. "Ending Tax Socialism". CATO Institute. 13 Sept. 1996 - "One major benefit of a flat-rate tax is that it would make the cost of government expansion visible to all taxpayers, especially if combined with a balanced-budget amendment. There would be a built-in incentive to compare the costs and benefits of new government programs. The invisible hand of the democratic process would then work more judiciously to determine the size of government."
con_12_3	Modern state budgets do not require progressive taxes	 Modern state budgets do not require progressive taxes Friedrich A. Hayek. "Taxation and Redistribution". The Constitution of Liberty. 1960 - "How small is the contribution of progressive tax rates (particularly of the high punitive rates levied on the largest incomes) to total revenue may be illustrated by a few figures for the United States and for Great Britain.  Concerning the former it has been stated (in 1956) that "the entire progressive super-structure produces only about 17 per cent of the total revenue  derived from the individual income tax"-or about 8.5 per cent of all federal revenue,-- and that of this “half is taken from taxable income brackets up through $16,000-$18,000, where the tax rate  approaches 50 per cent (while] the other half comes from the higher brackets and rates."
con_12_4	Progressive taxation risks corrupting public officials.	Progressive taxation risks corrupting public officials. Progressive taxes, depending on income self-declaration, create incentives for forgery, perjury, bribery and corruption of public officials.
headline_13	Simplicity: Are progressive tax systems simple enough?
pro_13_1	Tax code can be simplified without ending progressive tax	 Tax code can be simplified without ending progressive tax Daniel Nemiroff. "Simplification without a flat tax". The Gazette (Montreal). 1 May 2008 - "Both William Watson and Neils Veldhuis make compelling cases for simplification of the tax code. They are largely correct, and most Canadians would agree that loopholes ought to be closed, extravagant deductions disallowed, and all forms of income - salary, capital gains or stock-option bonuses - be treated the same[...]Both men then commit the fallacy of equating tax code simplification with a flat tax.[...]There is no reason we can't implement most of Veldhuis's shortcuts and keep a progressive taxation system. We'll still have to fill out a return, but as long as we keep the math simple - e.g., 10 per cent on the first $50,000, 20 per cent on anything up to $250,000, 90 per cent on anything over $10 million - we should be able to keep within postcard dimensions."
con_13_1	Progressive taxation is an inefficient and costly system	 Progressive taxation is an inefficient and costly system Linda Leatherdale, Business Editor for Toronto Sun. "Flat is where it's at". Toronto Sun. 13 Jan 2008. - "with a flat tax on our incomes, what a fairer, simpler world it would be.[...]Imagine being able to complete your income tax return in just five minutes on a post-card-sized form. That's what's possible if Canada would adopt a 15% flat tax, says Dr. Alvin Rabushka, an internationally renowned tax reform expert with the Hoover Institution at Stanford University.[...]Think about it: No more high-paid accountants and lawyers. No more shoe boxes full of receipts. And no more auditors trying to bully you into admitting you intentionally cheated. It would be so simple, who'd want to cheat?"
headline_14	CEO pay: Is constraining CEO pay with progressive taxes a good idea?
pro_14_1	Progressive taxation helps combat excessive CEO pay	 Progressive taxation helps combat excessive CEO pay There is a decreasing marginal benefit to high, or higher, wages, since the earner will see less and less of the extra gross pay actually appearing in their net pay packet. Therefore, the upward pressure on pay will reduce and excessive remuneration will become less common.
con_14_1	Government should not set CEO pay with progressive taxes.	Government should not set CEO pay with progressive taxes. Wages are a reward for work done which are largely a private matter between the employer and employee. Therefore, government has no legitimate interest in using a prohibitively high marginal tax rate to discourage high incomes.
con_14_2	Progressives wrongly presume society can determine proper income	 Progressives wrongly presume society can determine proper income The presumption under a progressive tax system is that society can determine what is too low and too high of an income. Yet, this is a highly subjective question for society and government to be involved in. The markets are a far better suited for answering this question.
headline_15	Global economy: How does progressive taxation fit into the global economy?
pro_15_1	Progressive taxes adjust for winners and losers of globalization	 Progressive taxes adjust for winners and losers of globalization Kenneth F. Scheve and Matthew J. Slaughter. "A New Deal for Globalization". Foreign Affairs. July/August 2007 - "Globalization has brought huge overall benefits, but earnings for most U.S. workers -- even those with college degrees -- have been falling recently; inequality is greater now than at any other time in the last 70 years. Whatever the cause, the result has been a surge in protectionism. To save globalization, policymakers must spread its gains more widely. The best way to do that is by redistributing income [through such policies as progressive taxation]."
pro_15_2	Citizens around the world are against Flat Tax	 Citizens around the world are against Flat Tax "Flat Tax Increasingly Unpopular with Poles". Polish News Bulletin. 30 May 2008 - "According to a poll conducted by Ernst&Young and PBS DGA for Gazeta Prawna, 68 percent of Poles are against the introduction of a flat tax; being of the opinion that the richest people should pay the highest taxes, they favour progressive tax." 
con_15_1	The Flat Tax is proving successful in many countries	 The Flat Tax is proving successful in many countries Neil Reynolds. "The spreading hegemony of the flat tax". The Globe and Mail (Canada). 19 Dec. 2007 -  We begin this progress report on the global flat tax revolution with the curious case of the Pridnestrovie Moldavian Republic [...] it has adopted a flat tax - at a rate of 10 per cent - on all personal and corporate income. In doing so, it becomes the eighth jurisdiction from the old USSR to opt for a flat-tax regime. (The others: Georgia, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Ukraine, Romania and Russia itself.)[...]More importantly, Poland will be the next European country to adopt flat taxes."
con_15_2	Progressive tax systems discourages foreign investments	 Progressive tax systems discourages foreign investments Matthew Krieger. "Lack of competitive tax system costs foreign investment, study finds". The Jerusalem Post. 6 Nov. 2007 - "Israel is being urged to overhaul its "outdated and complex" tax system and replace it with a simpler more efficient "flat tax" system that will boost economic growth increase state income and lead to a rise in direct foreign investment."
headline_16	Social: Are progressive taxes socially valuable?
pro_16_1	Progressive taxation encourages social cohesion.	Progressive taxation encourages social cohesion. It sends out a clear policy signal that income and wealth are social means which can be used for the collective good. It also reduces the disparity in net pay and so lessens the economic divisions between different members of society.
pro_16_2	Progressive taxation can help combat crime	 Progressive taxation can help combat crime Nick Netzer. "Bribing Thieves. A Theory of Crime and Progressive Taxation" - "The level of crime is often claimed to be correlated with the degree of inequality in a society, and redistribution is suggested as a remedy. This paper analyzes a producer-predator model of theft in large heterogeneous societies and examines the effect of public redistribution on individual incentives and consumption levels. It turns out that redistribution of income by moving from a linear to a progressive tax schedule can be Pareto improving under a large variety of circumstances. If the ratio of high-skilled to low-skilled individuals is small, progressive taxation acts as a substitute for direct law enforcement. Otherwise, redistribution and law enforcement are complements, in the sense that the introduction of progressive taxation should go along with stricter law enforcement. Altogether, the existence of crime is never Pareto effcient as soon as progressive taxation is admitted."
con_16_1	Progressive taxes rely on and worsen envy between groups	 Progressive taxes rely on and worsen envy between groups Policymakers are argued to be under a pressure from lower and middle income voters to limit higher incomes by the means of progressive taxation. A few economists argue against inequity aversion: "If policy makers' primary goal is … economic prosperity for all, they should avoid focusing on the politics of envy." (Gregory Mankiw)[23]
con_16_2	Progressive system causes government to favor wealthy for tax revenue	 Progressive system causes government to favor wealthy for tax revenue "Are Progressive Taxes a Good Thing?" Critical Mastiff. 9 Aug. 2005 - "In our present fiscal situation, wealthy people and corporations pay high Federal income taxes, and poorer people pay no income taxes at all or very few. Therefore, it makes sense for our rational actor, the Federal Government, to make laws that give preference to the rich and corporations over the poor, since tax revenues respond much more quickly when the rich get richer than when the poor get less poor. Such additional revenues can naturally be used to succor the same poor that the government has just victimized, making the poor indebted to the government and to the particular elected officials of each district."
con_16_3	Progressive taxes create imbalanced sense of civic ownership.	Progressive taxes create imbalanced sense of civic ownership. It is the case that paying taxes gives citizens a sense of ownership of the democracy and society in which they live. For this reason, a flat tax would offer an more equitable sense of ownership of wealthy and poor citizens. Progressive taxation, however, skews this sense of ownership toward the wealthy. 
headline_17	Public support: Is there public support for progressive taxes or flat taxes?
pro_17_1	There is strong public support for progressive taxation	 There is strong public support for progressive taxation Robert J. Shapiro. "Why Fairness Matters: Progressive Versus Flat Taxes". Progressive Policy Institute. 1 Apr. 1996 - "while everyone would like to pay less taxes, evidence suggests that a substantial majority of Americans would prefer a little more progressivity, so that low income families could pay a little less than they do today and very affluent families would pay a little more." 
con_17_1	Public support for progressive taxes varies over time	 Public support for progressive taxes varies over time Jean Hindriks. "Is there a demand for income tax progressivity?". Elsevier Science B.V. 15 June 2000 - "Recently, Marhuenda and Ortuno-Ortin [Economics Letters 48 (1995) 319] have provided a popular support for progressivity theorem that says that a marginal progressive tax always defeats a marginal regressive tax as long as individuals vote for the tax scheme minimizing their tax liabilities and the median income is less than the mean income. In this paper we provide, under similar circumstances, a popular support for regressivity theorem according to which for any existing tax scheme there is always a majority support for a regressive reform reducing marginal progressivity (or increasing marginal regressivity). This regressive reform is supported by both extremes of the income distribution. Combining this result with Marhuenda and Ortuno-Ortin’s result implies that vote cycling between regressive and progressive tax reform is inevitable and thus that the demand for progressivity cannot be established in the standard Downsian framework with self-interested voters.
headline_18	Happiness: Is progressive taxation a route to happiness?
pro_18_1	Progressive taxation fosters greater happiness in society	 Progressive taxation fosters greater happiness in society Thomas D. Griffith. "Progressive Taxation and Happiness". Boston College - "Abstract: This Article explores the optimal level of income redistribution by examining the potential welfare gains from redistributive tax and spending policies. Drawing on recent research on human happiness, this Article argues that while wealthy nations are generally happier than their poorer counterparts, neither national nor individual economic growth appear to have an appreciable impact on the subjective well-being of the citizens of relatively wealthy nations. Significant causes of this finding include the problem of rivalry—that increases in the income of some depress the happiness of others—and the fact that individuals overestimate the degree to which additional consumption will improve their happiness. Studies show the level of inequality in a society also may affect levels of happiness. Ultimately, happiness research is consistent with the strongest justification for adopting a progressive tax structure—income has declining marginal utility thus redistribution can increase total welfare in a society."
con_18_1	Progressive taxes do not increase happiness	 Progressive taxes do not increase happiness Martin Wolf. "Why progressive taxation is not the route to happiness". Financial Times. 5 Jun. 2007 - Happiness is fashionable these days. Yet should we accept the common view that the new “science” of happiness has cemented the superiority of Scandinavian social democracy over Anglo-Saxon liberalism? The answer is: No. The results are just as destructive to the pious certainties of “progressives” as to those of their opponents.
con_18_2	Progressives assign too much value to money in individual welfare	 Progressives assign too much value to money in individual welfare Money is not the end all be all of success, welfare, and happiness. Attempting to equalize income through progressive taxation as a means to increasing [and possibly equalizing] welfare, therefore, is not a tenable position. 
