title	Fairness Doctrine
question	Should the Fairness Doctrine in the United States be reinstated?
headline_1	First Amendment: Does the Fairness Doctrine uphold Free Speech in First Amendment?
pro_1_1	Fairness Doctrine rightly regulates free speech on public airwaves	 Fairness Doctrine rightly regulates free speech on public airwaves U.S. Supreme Court, upholding the constitutionality of the Fairness Doctrine in Red Lion Broadcasting Co. v. FCC, 1969. - "A license permits broadcasting, but the licensee has no constitutional right to be the one who holds the license or to monopolize a...frequency to the exclusion of his fellow citizens. There is nothing in the First Amendment which prevents the Government from requiring a licensee to share his frequency with others.... It is the right of the viewers and listeners, not the right of the broadcasters, which is paramount."
pro_1_2	Fairness Doctrine helps advance free speech values	 Fairness Doctrine helps advance free speech values Supreme Court Justice Byron White wrote: “There is no sanctuary in the First Amendment for unlimited private censorship operating in a medium not open to all.” 
pro_1_3	Fairness Doctrine does not censor; only ensures balance	 Fairness Doctrine does not censor; only ensures balance Jeff Cohen. "The "Hush Rush" Hoax: Limbaugh on the Fairness Doctrine". FAIR.org. November/December 1994 - "The Fairness Doctrine isn't going to take Rush Limbaugh off the air," remarked Larry King (The Rush Limbaugh Story, Paul Colford). "Be fair: What's wrong with that? If I were Rush, I would want a liberal host following my show."
pro_1_4	Free speech requires boundaries, such as Fairness Doctrine	 Free speech requires boundaries, such as Fairness Doctrine "TV View; Why the Fairness Doctrine is Still Important". New York Times. 15 Sept. 1985 - "The Fairness Doctrine may be only a standard, and it may not often be enforced. But it does recognize that while speech may be free, it may not always be unbridled. Enlightened public discourse demands a sense of boundaries. Mere possession of a radio or television station does not mean the owner has a sense of boundaries; it means only that he has sufficient money to buy the station."
con_1_1	Fairness Doctrine harms instead of protecting free speech	 Fairness Doctrine harms instead of protecting free speech Adam Thierer. "Why the Fairness Doctrine is Anything But Fair". Heritage Foundation. 29 Oct. 1993 - "The result of a reinstituted fairness doctrine would not be fair at all. In practice, much controversial speech heard today would be stifled as the threat of random investigations and warnings discouraged broadcasters from airing what FCC bureaucrats might refer to as 'unbalanced' views."
con_1_2	Public can judge extreme viewpoints: Fairness Doctrine unnecessary	 Public can judge extreme viewpoints: Fairness Doctrine unnecessary Democratic House Appropriations Committee Chairman David Obey of Wisconsin - "We ought to let right-wing talk radio go on as they do now. Rush and Sean (Hannity) are just about as important in the scheme of things as Paris Hilton, and I would hate to see them gain an ounce of credibility by being forced by a government agency or anybody else to moderate their views enough that they might become modestly influential or respected."[3]
con_1_3	Fairness Doctrine can benefit outrageous perspectives	 Fairness Doctrine can benefit outrageous perspectives Barbara Comstock & Lanny J. Davis. "What’s Fair Is Fair. And fair is not the 'Fairness Doctrine.'". National Review Online. 20 Oct. 2008 - "The doctrine also resulted in lawsuits such as one in 1978 when NBC aired a show on the Holocaust and was sued by a group demanding air time to argue that the Holocaust was a myth. The network had to defend itself for over three years."
headline_2	Fairness: Is it possible to determine fairness?
pro_2_1	Fairness Doctrine is more a code of conduct than mandate	 Fairness Doctrine is more a code of conduct than mandate "TV View; Why the Fairness Doctrine is Still Important". New York Times. 15 Sept. 1985 - "The Fairness Doctrine always has been more symbolic than real, more a standard to be strived for than an absolute command. The F.C.C. has not been punitive or capricious in enforcing it, and although broadcasters say the Fairness Doctrine exerts a chilling effect, preventing them from examining controversial issues, the chill seems to be mostly in their minds. The F.C.C. seldom penalizes anyone." 
pro_2_2	Fairness Doctrine does not require equal time for viewpoints	 Fairness Doctrine does not require equal time for viewpoints Steve Rendall. "How We Lost it, and Why We Need it Back". Common Dreams. 12 Feb. 2005 - "There are many misconceptions about the Fairness Doctrine. For instance, it did not require that each program be internally balanced, nor did it mandate equal time for opposing points of view. And it didn’t require that the balance of a station’s program lineup be anything like 50/50."
pro_2_3	Fariness Doctrine applies only to controversial broadcastings	 Fariness Doctrine applies only to controversial broadcastings "TV View; Why the Fairness Doctrine is Still Important". New York Times. 15 Sept. 1985 - "broadcasters are not required to extend the reasonable opportunity for inconsequential issues; they are required to extend it only for controversial issues. It's hard to understand how this impedes broadcast journalism. In fact, the Fairness Doctrine is predicated on what seem to be the most elementary rules of journalism."
pro_2_4	Free speech without Fairness Doctrine can harm policy-making	 Free speech without Fairness Doctrine can harm policy-making "Broadcasting, reintroducing the Fairness Doctrine". Debatabase. 27 Aug. 2008 - "Unbalanced broadcasting also affects policymaking, in ways which are bad for our country. Talk radio hosts can fire up their audiences over particular issues, successfully urging them to place so much pressure on their elected representatives that they are able to impose their agenda at state and federal level. This attacks the representative principle – that elected officials must use their best judgement to make decisions for the good of all, rather than bending to the uninformed and perhaps temporary will of mass opinion. Such campaigns are particularly dangerous on issues such as trade and immigration where the populist argument seems simple, easily summed up in appealing nativist slogans. Often the alternative case is more complex, requiring a greater level of economic and political education and a willingness to study dispassionately a range of evidence. Following the collapse in 2007 of attempts at immigration reform, even Tent Lott, a leading Republican Senator, has lamented that talk radio is running the country, having power without responsibility."
con_2_1	Fairness Doctrine falsely presumes fairness can be determined	 Fairness Doctrine falsely presumes "fairness" can be determined Adam Thierer. "Why the Fairness Doctrine is Anything But Fair". Heritage Foundation. 29 Oct. 1993 - "Faulty Premise #2: "Fairness" or "fair access" is best determined by FCC authorities[...]Reality: FCC bureaucrats can neither determine what is "fair" nor enforce it[...]The second fallacy upon which the doctrine rests concerns the idea of "fairness" itself. As defined by proponents of the doctrine, "fairness" apparently means that each broadcaster must offer air time to anyone with a controversial view. Since it is impossible for every station to be monitored constantly, FCC regulators would arbitrarily determine what "fair access" is, and who is entitled to it, through selective enforcement."
con_2_2	Fairness Doctrine opens the door to government abuse	 Fairness Doctrine opens the door to government abuse Adam Thierer. "Why the Fairness Doctrine is Anything But Fair". Heritage Foundation. 29 Oct. 1993 - "FCC regulators would arbitrarily determine what "fair access" is, and who is entitled to it, through selective enforcement. This, of course, puts immense power into the hands of federal regulators. And in fact, the fairness doctrine was used by both the Kennedy and Nixon Administrations to limit political opposition. Telecommunications scholar Thomas W. Hazlett notes that under the Nixon Administration, "License harassment of stations considered unfriendly to the Administration became a regular item on the agenda at White House policy meetings." (Thomas W. Hazlett, "The Fairness Doctrine and the First Amendment," The Public Interest, Summer 1989, p. 105.) As one former Kennedy Administration official, Bill Ruder, has said, "We had a massive strategy to use the fairness doctrine to challenge and harass the right-wing broadcasters, and hope the challenge would be so costly to them that they would be inhibited and decide it was too expensive to continue." (Tony Snow, "Return of the Fairness Demon," The Washington Times, September 5, 1993, p. B3.)"
con_2_3	Enforcing the Fairness Doctrine would be too expensive.	Enforcing the Fairness Doctrine would be too expensive. The Fairness Doctrine would be difficult to enforce, as it would require government officials oversee nearly every broadcasting network to ensure "fair and balanced" broadcasting. This would be expensive.
headline_3	Balance: Is Fairness Doctrine necessary to restore balance?
pro_3_1	Fairness Doctrine would counter conservative domination of radio	 Fairness Doctrine would counter conservative domination of radio Steve Rendall. "How We Lost it, and Why We Need it Back". Common Dreams. 12 Feb. 2005 - "Sinclair’s history of one-sided editorializing and right-wing water-carrying, which long preceded its Stolen Honor ploy (Extra!, 11–12/04), puts it in the company of political talk radio, where right-wing opinion is the rule, locally and nationally. Together, they are part of a growing trend that sees movement conservatives and Republican partisans using the publicly owned airwaves as a political megaphone—one that goes largely unanswered by any regular opposing perspective. It’s an imbalance that begs for a remedy." 
pro_3_2	Fairness Doctrine protects against odious views gaining legitimacy	 Fairness Doctrine protects against odious views gaining legitimacy "TV View; Why the Fairness Doctrine is Still Important". New York Times. 15 Sept. 1985 - "Microphones and cameras are beguiling. They confer identity and status on the people who use them. Those who believe themselves to be disenfranchised can find a home[...]In a way, that's what the dispute over the television coverage of terrorism is all about. Causes, no matter how odious, may be legitimatized by media exposure. Under the Fairness Doctrine, a radio or television station that advocates an odious cause may be held accountable if it does not present a countervailing view. In the absence of the Fairness Doctrine, there is no necessity for it to do so. Indeed, in the absence of any restriction, an odious cause may not only be heard; it may control the radio or television station itself." 
con_3_1	Balanced left/right broadcasting exist w/o Fairness Doctrine	 Balanced left/right broadcasting exist w/o Fairness Doctrine Pete Winn. "Democratic Senator Tells Conservative Radio Station He’d Re-impose Fairness Doctrine--on Them". CNS News. 28. Oct. 2008 - "[Jim Villanucci:] in this market, for instance, you’ve got KKOB. If you want liberal talk, you’ve got Air America in this market, you’ve got NPR, you’ve got satellite radio – there’s a lefty talk station and a rightie talk station. Do you think there are people who aren’t able to find a viewpoint that is in sync with what they believe?"
con_3_2	Fairness Doctrine advocates forget Media's liberal bias.	Fairness Doctrine advocates forget Media's liberal bias. The Media, including all its various forms, is considered by many sources to have a liberal bias, with the vast majority of its workers voting Democrat. It is odd, therefore, for Democrats to complain about conservative radio, and call for the Fairness Doctrine as a solution. 
con_3_3	Fairness Doctrine wrongly sees two sides to every issue	 Fairness Doctrine wrongly sees "two sides" to every issue Barbara Comstock & Lanny J. Davis. "What’s Fair Is Fair. And fair is not the 'Fairness Doctrine.'". National Review Online. 20 Oct. 2008 - "as for the idea of hearing from “both sides” of an issue — who assumes there are just two sides? If any two or three people could disagree as to how many sides of an issue exist — as we are sure we would — can you imagine government bureaucrats deciding first, how many sides of an issue there might be and second, how much “fair and balanced” speech each and every side would be allocated?"
headline_4	Public debate: Does the Fairness Doctrine improve public discourse?
pro_4_1	The Fairness Doctrine improves the public discourse	 The Fairness Doctrine improves the public discourse Sen. Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M.) - "for many, many years we operated under a Fairness Doctrine in this country, and I think the country was well-served. I think the public discussion was at a higher level and more intelligent in those days than it has become since."[4]
con_4_1	Fairness Doctrine actually stifles public debate	 Fairness Doctrine actually stifles public debate "No need to bring back the 'fairness doctrine'". Concord Monitor. 13 Nov. 2008 - "It sounds innocuous, even noble: In exchange for a license to use the public airwaves, broadcasters must demonstrate to the Federal Communications Commission that they are airing issues of public importance and reserving airtime for opposing views. But the FCC abandoned this requirement in 1987, and the intervening years have seen an explosion of forums and media for expressing a given point of view."
headline_5	Modern media: Has modern media made Fairness Doctrine irrelevant?
pro_5_1	Fairness Doctrine remains important despite new media	 Fairness Doctrine remains important despite new media Nick Carr. "Who killed the blogosphere?". Rough Type. 7 Nov. 2008 - "When "the wireless" was introduced to America around 1900, it set off a surge in amateur broadcasting, as hundreds of thousands of people took to the airwaves. "On every night after dinner," wrote Francis Collins in the 1912 book Wireless Man, "the entire country becomes a vast whispering gallery."
con_5_1	Fairness Doctrine ignores sufficiency of modern media outlets	 Fairness Doctrine ignores sufficiency of modern media outlets Adam Thierer. "Why the Fairness Doctrine is Anything But Fair". Heritage Foundation. 29 Oct. 1993 - "The doctrine's supporters seem not to appreciate just how much the broadcast world has changed since 1949. With the proliferation of informational resources and technology, the number of broadcast outlets available to the public has increased steadily. In such an environment, it is hard to understand why the federal government must police the airwaves to ensure that differing views are heard." 
headline_6	Markets: Are market forces insufficient in demanding sound public discourse?
pro_6_1	Fairness Doctrine counters corporate control of broadcasting	 Fairness Doctrine counters corporate control of broadcasting "Broadcasting, reintroducing the Fairness Doctrine". Debatabase. 27 Aug. 2008 - "The ownership structure of the radio market is unfair, dominated as it is by a few big companies who impose a right-wing agenda on the stations they control. An analysis of the content broadcast by the top five station-owning companies showed that over 90% of the talk they broadcast is right-wing in nature. Other voices not given a look-in. Given election results, this clearly cannot be reflecting any competitive forces but is instead pushing a particular political viewpoint upon the marketplace. In such a case of market failure it is necessary for the state to require free access to the airwaves for alternative viewpoints."   
pro_6_2	Fairness Doctrine does not expose broadcasters to risk of litigation	 Fairness Doctrine does not expose broadcasters to risk of litigation "TV View; Why the Fairness Doctrine is Still Important". New York Times. 15 Sept. 1985 - "Broadcasters, meanwhile, say the Fairnesss Doctrine imposes an unfair burden. They complain that it allows them to be harassed by nuisance suits and plagued by partisans who claim they do not present both sides of an issue. In 1974, the F.C.C. responded to similar complaints from broadcasters by saying that these burdens simply run with the territory. Last month's F.C.C. report reversed this position. It said the burdens were onerous, and that the fear of attracting them imposed a chilling effect on broadcast journalism. It apparently causes the broadcasters to stay away from controversial issues.
con_6_1	Popularity of conservative talk radio confirms its legitimacy	 Popularity of conservative talk radio confirms its legitimacy "Broadcasting, reintroducing the Fairness Doctrine". Debatabase. 27 Aug. 2008 - "Broadcasting is a business, not different in character from any other. We need to take a market view and let the public as consumers decide what they want to listen to rather than imposing it upon them. There is nothing to stop anyone launching a liberal talk radio station, and indeed there have been many attempts to do so. But these have proved unpopular failures, because the public does not want to buy what they are peddling. Talk radio is successful because its broadcasters share the values of the American people, and are able to express the way they feel about the key issues of the day. One of those issues is the way in which strong public opinion (e.g. over immigration, NAFTA or school prayer) has been consistently ignored by politicians over many decades – they say one thing at election time and then do another in Washington. If talk radio publicises representatives’ voting records and enables their voters to hold them to account, then so much the better."
con_6_2	Corporate broadcasters respond to diverse market demands	 Corporate broadcasters respond to diverse market demands "Broadcasting, reintroducing the Fairness Doctrine". Debatabase. 27 Aug. 2008 - "The ownership of broadcasting stations does respond to market forces – it is easy to establish new stations, and in a highly competitive market no company will run programming which alienates consumers for fear of commercial failure. In fact the FCC regulates media ownership very carefully to ensure that no one company dominates either nationally or in particular local markets. It is this interference which is truly hard to justify. Ultimately the left is just sore that their views are unpopular with the American people and that no one wants to listen to liberal stations like Air American Radio. Now they want to force liberal propaganda on everyone because they trust neither the American people nor the free market."
con_6_3	Fairness Doctrine would destroy viability of conservative radio	 Fairness Doctrine would destroy viability of conservative radio Michael Gerson. "Where the Mines Are". Washington Post. 14 Nov. 2008 - "Under this doctrine, three hours of Rush Limbaugh on a radio station would have to be balanced by three hours of his liberal equivalent. This may sound fair and balanced. But it is a classic case where the "unintended consequences" are so obvious that those consequences must be intended. It would destroy the profitability of conservative talk radio."
con_6_4	Fairness Doctrine would open costly political battle	 Fairness Doctrine would open costly political battle Michael Gerson. "Where the Mines Are". Washington Post. 14 Nov. 2008 - "During the campaign, Obama signaled that he did not support the reimposition of the Fairness Doctrine. But House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other Democratic leaders are big fans of this regulation. And talk radio is already preparing for a showdown. If Obama were to endorse this doctrine, even reluctantly, the resulting fireworks would obscure every other topic."
