title	Employee Free Choice Act
question	Should the US Congress pass the Employee Free Choice Act?
headline_1	Worker's rights: Does EFCA strengthen worker's rights?
pro_1_1	EFCA strengthens workers' ability and right to unionize	 EFCA strengthens workers' ability and right to unionize Employer Free Choice Act. American Rights at Work - "The Employee Free Choice Act would allow workers to form a union through “majority sign-up.”  If workers know they want a union, we should have laws that let them have it.  The Employee Free Choice Act would require an employer to recognize its employees’ union when a majority has signed union authorization cards.  Under current law, management can refuse to recognize a union even when 100 percent of employees have signed authorization cards.  After a majority of workers have signed cards, an employer can still call for a separate election.  Under the current system, then, the employer gets to decide whether a separate election is necessary.  The Employee Free Choice Act would give this choice to the workers.  Read more about majority sign-up." 
pro_1_2	EFCA preserves employee choice with majority sign-up voting	 EFCA preserves employee choice with majority sign-up voting Opponents of the Employee Choice Act argue that somehow the Employee Free Choice Act eliminates employee rights to free choice through secret ballots. But, this is is false. The EFCA replaces secret ballots with card-ballot systems, and institute a number of important measures to better enable employees to freely vote to unionize. 
con_1_1	Employee Free Choice Act eliminates workers' right to secret ballots	 Employee Free Choice Act eliminates workers' right to secret ballots Rep. John Kline (R-Minn.), an opponent of the bill, stated "It is beyond me how one can possibly claim that a system whereby everyone – your employer, your union organizer, and your co-workers – knows exactly how you vote on the issue of unionization gives an employee 'free choice...It seems pretty clear to me that the only way to ensure that a worker is 'free to choose' is to ensure that there's a private ballot, so that no one knows how you voted. I cannot fathom how we were about to sit there today and debate a proposal to take away a worker's democratic right to vote in a secret-ballot election and call it 'Employee Free Choice.'" [1]
con_1_2	EFCA card checking campaigns can be unreliable and illegitimate	 EFCA card checking campaigns can be unreliable and illegitimate James Sherk and Paul Kersey. "How the Employee Free Choice Act Takes Away Workers' Rights". Heritage Foundation. 23 Apr. 2007 - "Organizing Without Majority Support. Card-check campaigns expose workers to union threats and harassment and pressure them to commit after hearing a one-sided union sales pitch. Cards collected under those circumstances often do not reflect employees' free choice. Consequently card-check allows union activists to organize plants where a majority of workers oppose the union.
con_1_3	EFCA would foster the creation of unions workers may not want	 EFCA would foster the creation of unions workers may not want "The Employee Free Choice Act - A senate primer". The Union Free Employer. 21 Mar. 2007 - "In a nutshell, the E.F.C.A. will [...] require an employer to recognize a union as the exclusive representative of all the employees as soon as the union presents cards signed by a majority -- whether or not the employees understood what they were signing"
headline_2	Unions: Should EFCA increase union size?
pro_2_1	Too many workers want to unionize but can't currently	 Too many workers want to unionize but can't currently "The Employee Free Choice Act". Campaign for America's Future. - "More than half of all U.S. workers—nearly 60 million—say they would join a union right now if they could [Peter D. Hart poll]. Their best opportunity to get ahead is by uniting with co-workers to bargain with employers for better wages and benefits. Working people want that opportunity."
pro_2_2	Employee Free Choice Act responds to worsening conditions for workers	 Employee Free Choice Act responds to worsening conditions for workers AFL CIO on the Employee Free Choice Act - "It’s Time to Restore Workers’ Freedom to Form Unions. America’s working people are struggling to make ends meet these days and our middle class is disappearing. The best opportunity working people have to get ahead economically is by uniting to bargain with their employers for better wages and benefits. Recent research has shown that some 60 million U.S. workers would join a union if they could...But the current system for forming unions and bargaining is broken."
pro_2_3	EFCA reforms a broken, undemocratic, and unfair US union system	 EFCA reforms a broken, undemocratic, and unfair US union system AFL CIO on the Employee Free Choice Act - "the current system for forming unions and bargaining is broken. Every day, corporations deny workers the freedom to decide for themselves whether to form unions to bargain for a better life. They routinely intimidate, harass, coerce and even fire workers who try to form unions and bargain for economic well-being."
con_2_1	EFCA is biased toward increasing unions and their power	 EFCA is biased toward increasing unions and their power Stephen Cabot. "Employee Free Choice Act Puts A Target On The Back Of Manufacturers". Industry Weekly. 16 Oct. 2008 - "While the AFL-CIO and other unions support Kennedy's proposal to do away with secret ballot elections, they do favor secret ballot elections when it comes to decertifying a union, which is a procedure that permits workers to decide if they want to continue being represented by a union. In the case of decertifications, the unions feel that management might intimidate union members to throw out the union and so there should be secret elections. This lack of logical consistency points to the real union agenda, which is to increase membership, while discouraging decertifications.
con_2_2	Unions are dwindling because few workers care to join	 Unions are dwindling because few workers care to join James Sherk and Paul Kersey. "How the Employee Free Choice Act Takes Away Workers' Rights". Heritage Foundation. 23 Apr. 2007 - "Few Workers Want to Organize. Union activ­ists contend that the low level of unionization in the United States proves that elections do not reflect workers' free choice. They argue that most Ameri­can workers actually want to join a union. They back this up with polling numbers showing that 53 percent of non-union workers, or 57 million work­ers, would like to belong to a union. However those numbers are highly suspect. The AFL-CIO commissioned the poll. Peter Hart, a Dem­ocratic pollster, conducted it. The poll itself remains unpublished, and the AFL-CIO has not revealed the questions or polling methodologies used. Publicly publishedpolls conducted by nonparti­san pollsters show the opposite: Relatively few non-union workers want general representation. Zogby polling shows that, by a margin of more than 3 to 1, non-union workers do not want to belong to a labor union.[49] Because a union must win the support of a majority of a company's workers to win recognition, the fact that relatively few workers belong to a union is not surprising."
headline_3	Intimidation: Would the EFCA reduce intimidation?
pro_3_1	Employee Free Choice Act protects unionizing workers from intimidation	 Employee Free Choice Act protects unionizing workers from intimidation Supporters of the Employee Free Choice Act argued that during the weeks (or months) it took to set up the election, management often conducted efforts to dissuade workers from organizing. Many workers reported being threatened with replacement if they ever (as part of a union) chose to strike. Others claimed that employers “predicted” future workplace closures, which under current law was legal so long as they did not “threaten” it. In some cases, employers were even reported to have fired worker activists in an attempt to deter future unionization efforts, knowing it would take years for reinstatement orders to take effect.[2] 
pro_3_2	Secret voting systems allow for employer abuses.	Secret voting systems allow for employer abuses. In the words of one labor activist, government-supervised secret-ballot orga­nizing elections "look more like the discredited practices of rogue regimes abroad than like any­thing we would call American."[3]
pro_3_3	EFCA gives employees equal access to injunctive relief	 EFCA gives employees equal access to injunctive relief "The Employee Free Choice Act Meaningful. Remedies Against Employer Coercion". AFL-CIO - "The Employee Free Choice Act gives employees equal access to injunctive relief. Currently, only employers are entitled to mandatory injunctive relief when their rights are violated. Employees and their unions have no similar remedy. Under current law, the NLRB is required to seek a federal court order to protect employers from certain prohibited conduct by unions. These cases receive top priority, and injunction petitions are filed in federal court within 72 hours of an employer filing a charge against a union. The Employee Free Choice Act mandates similar expedited injunctive relief when workers are fired or other significant violations of employees’ rights occur during organizing efforts or during the period when employees are seeking to negotiate a first contract. The NLRB must file for an injunction promptly after the filing of a meritorious charge, and courts may grant immediate interim relief, including immediate reinstatement of fired employees."
con_3_1	Employee Free Choice Act favors one-sided union pitches	 Employee Free Choice Act favors one-sided union pitches James Sherk and Paul Kersey. "How the Employee Free Choice Act Takes Away Workers' Rights". Heritage Foundation. 23 Apr. 2007 - "Even when union organizers do not threaten workers, card checks often do not reveal workers' free and considered choice about joining a union because workers do not hear both sides' pitches and lack time for reflection. Instead, card checks force workers to choose in a high-pressure sales situation.
con_3_2	EFCA opens door to intimidation of union holdouts	 EFCA opens door to intimidation of union holdouts James Sherk and Paul Kersey. "How the Employee Free Choice Act Takes Away Workers' Rights". Heritage Foundation. 23 Apr. 2007 - "Harassing Holdouts. With card checks, union organizers know who has and has not signed up to join the union, allowing them to repeatedly approach and pressure reluctant workers who declined to sign after the first sales pitch. With this technique, a worker's decision to join the union is binding, while a decision to opt out only means 'not this time.'"
con_3_3	Employee Free Choice Act would not solve alleged employer abuses	 Employee Free Choice Act would not solve alleged employer abuses James Sherk and Paul Kersey. "How the Employee Free Choice Act Takes Away Workers' Rights". Heritage Foundation. 23 Apr. 2007 - "Unions Allege Abuses and Imbalances. It is difficult to argue for stripping workers of their right to a private vote. To justify putting an end to orga­nizing elections, unions argue that the elections take place "in an inherently and intensely coercive envi­ronment" and are stacked against workers who want to join a union[...] If such abuses were occurring, depriving work­ers of a private vote would do almost nothing to stop them." 
con_3_4	Employers rarely violate the law during union organizing campaigns	 Employers rarely violate the law during union organizing campaigns James Sherk and Paul Kersey. "How the Employee Free Choice Act Takes Away Workers' Rights". Heritage Foundation. 23 Apr. 2007 - "the unions' allegations are either factually false or highly misleading. The facts show that employers rarely violate the law in orga­nizing drives and that, if anything, NLRB election procedures favor unions: Unions win 61 percent of all organizing elections."
con_3_5	Employers have been pressured to voluntarily adopt card-checking	 Employers have been pressured to "voluntarily" adopt card-checking 
headline_4	Economics: Is the EFCA good for the economy/business/workers?
pro_4_1	Opposition to EFCA is driven by corporate interests	 Opposition to EFCA is driven by corporate interests Bob Bussel, director of the Labor Education and Research Center at the University of Oregon. "Why the Employee Free Choice Act Is Good for America". - "The opposition to this legislation comes from the usual suspects and is thoroughly predictable. Employers and their well-funded ideological allies know that a stronger union movement means they will have to negotiate with workers rather than dictate to them. They also understand that a rejuvenated union movement would press politically for a fairer distribution of social and economic resources, insist that government play a larger role in regulating corporate behavior, and argue that market considerations should not be the sole determinant of public policy."
pro_4_2	There is significant public support for EFCA.	There is significant public support for EFCA. In support of the bill, the AFL-CIO also noted a poll showing that more than three-quarters of Americans (77%) support strong laws giving employees the freedom to make their own choice about whether to have a union in their workplace without interference from management. [23] 
con_4_1	EFCA would be costly to companies and workers	 EFCA would be costly to companies and workers Stephen Cabot. "Employee Free Choice Act Puts A Target On The Back Of Manufacturers". Industry Weekly. 16 Oct. 2008 - "Senator Kennedy (D-Mass.) has proposed a bill that, if passed, will do more damage to manufacturing companies than any other labor relations legislation in the last fifty years."
con_4_2	EFCA would force employers to campaign year-round	 EFCA would force employers to campaign year-round "The Impact of the Employee Free Choice Act on Employers". Ford and Harrison - "Employers Must Consider Year-Round Campaign. EFCA allows a union to gather signatures without the employer knowing anything about it until the union asks the NLRB for certification. At that point, it is too late for the employer to do anything about it. Facing that scheme, an employer would have to consider seriously communicating with employees throughout the year about the benefits of operating union-free. This not only would be a major distraction for the entire business, but also any discipline would take place in the context of the employer campaigning against the union. The odds of any adverse employment action becoming the subject of an unfair labor practice charge would increase dramatically."
headline_5	Penalties: Are the EFCA penalties for employers a good idea?
pro_5_1	EFCA raises penalties on employers violating unionization laws	 EFCA raises penalties on employers violating unionization laws "US: Support the Employee Free Choice Act". Human Rights Watch. 27 Feb. 2007 - "The Employee Free Choice Act would strengthen the penalties for anti-union discrimination committed during an organizing drive or first-contract negotiation by increasing the amount due victimized workers; providing for civil fines of up to $20,000 per violation for willful or repeated illegal acts; and requiring the NLRB to seek injunctive relief if it reasonably believes that an employer “significantly interferes with, restrains, or coerces employees” in the exercise of their rights, as is already required in similar cases against unions. These reforms would not change the basic rules governing workers’ right to organize in the United States. Instead, they would give them teeth, making US employers think twice before violating existing US laws protecting freedom of association."  
con_5_1	EFCA is biased toward punishing employers and not unions	 EFCA is biased toward punishing employers and not unions According to the Heritage Foundation, the EFCA wrongly "increase[s] penalties for unfair labor practices committed by employers but not by unions. Each of these provisions would be bad for American workers."
headline_6	Arbitration: Is the EFCA arbitration process a good idea?
pro_6_1	EFCA allows employers or employees to seek negotiation mediation	 EFCA allows employers or employees to seek negotiation mediation Employer Free Choice Act. American Rights at Work - "Allow employers or employees to request mediation if they’re unable to negotiate a first contract.  Under current law, anti-union employers often drag workers through lengthy negotiations by delaying bargaining sessions, withholding relevant information, and putting forth bogus proposals.  Even though these tactics are illegal, there are no effective deterrents to prevent “surface bargaining.”  The Employee Free Choice Act will strengthen workers’ ability to achieve a first contract within a reasonable period of time.  Read more about mediation & arbitration." 
con_6_1	EFCA wrongly imposes binding arbitration on companies	 EFCA wrongly imposes binding arbitration on companies Force flawed binding arbitration: The EFCA would require that a binding arbitration be required in the event that union and employer negotiations reached an impasse. Independent arbitrators, writers from the Heritage Foundation argued, could be a very useful tool for resolving disputes, however, binding arbitration leaves unions and employers at the unpredictable whims of an arbitration panel, "leaving management and workers to deal with the consequences." 
