title	Divided government vs. one-party rule
question	Is divided government better than one-party rule?
headline_1	Checks: Does divided government provide important checks and balances?
pro_1_1	Divided government places a necessary check on ambition	 Divided government places a necessary check on ambition "Here's my dream ticket: Why divided government's good for America". Daily News. 2 Nov. 2008 - My strong preference for a check and balance on the accumulation of power leads me to hope Republicans salvage a sliver of power from this Democratic tide.
pro_1_2	Divided government avoids reactionary power swings	 Divided government avoids reactionary power swings "Here's my dream ticket: Why divided government's good for America". Daily News. 2 Nov. 2008 - "Indeed, much of Barack Obama's argument for election is based on ending not just George Bush's administration, but on overturning Republican philosophy on everything from Iraq to regulating markets to tax policy. Most of those issues emerged during Bush's first six years, when the GOP also held Congress.
pro_1_3	Divided government offers better opportunities for dissent	 Divided government offers better opportunities for dissent "Here's my dream ticket: Why divided government's good for America". Daily News. 2 Nov. 2008 - "A dependence on the people is, no doubt, the primary control on the government; but experience has taught mankind the necessity of auxiliary precautions," Madison wrote.
con_1_1	Presidents can effectively control members of their own Party	 Presidents can effectively control members of their own Party Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Missouri, said in October of 2008, "If there were huge majorities in the House and the Senate and John McCain were president, it is more likely that Congress would flex their muscle and do whatever they wanted to do regardless of John McCain — because they wouldn’t need John McCain’s approval. On the other hand, if you have Barack Obama in the White House, he believes in bipartisan cooperation. He wants to change this ‘I control the mountain and therefore I will move the mountain mentality’ in Washington."[5]
con_1_2	One-party rule requires unlikely Senate super-majority	 One-party rule requires unlikely Senate super-majority "The Case That Divided Government is Irrelevant". 2008 Central. 8 Jul. 2008 - "One party has total control only if they have 60 members of the Senate, one reasons liberals are going crazy over that number this year. This is exceptionally unlikely to happen this year. Nate Silver projects that there is only about a 17% chance of that happening given the electorate."
con_1_3	Executive foreign policy is hardly constrained in a divided government	 Executive foreign policy is hardly constrained in a divided government "The Case That Divided Government is Irrelevant". 2008 Central. 8 Jul. 2008 - "in terms of foriegn policy, the development the past 50 years has strongly favored the President over Congress. Indeed, Bush has been able to do almost whatever he wanted in foreign policy, even after the Democrats took back Congress in 2006. Bill Clinton initiated the Kosovo campaign in the middle of being impeached."
con_1_4	Compromise is still necessary under one-party rule	 Compromise is still necessary under one-party rule "The Case That Divided Government is Irrelevant". 2008 Central. 8 Jul. 2008 - "This is also true when the same party is in control of Congress and the White House. I’ll take the Farm Bill and raise him every other bill I’ve mentioned: Tax Cuts, Energy Bill, Katrina Bills, No Child Left Behind, Medicare, etc. Even the poorly organized Democrats were able to negotiate somewhat with those. Moreover, even with undivided government, when negotiation failed, bills did not pass (Social Security)."
con_1_5	The Supreme Court still checks one-party rule	 The Supreme Court still checks one-party rule "The hypocrisy of the 'One-Party Rule' Gambit". Informed Comment. 28 Oct. 2008 - "Second, the Democrats do not have the supreme court, and there is no early prospect of a firm Democratic majority on it. The conservatives on it are still fairly young and energetic. Thomas and Scalia are very far right, and Alito and Roberts only a little less so. Kennedy is a swing vote but not exactly a liberal. The likely retirements will mostly come from the ranks of liberals, so that Obama and a Democratic congress will only be able to maintain a status quo. It is true that they can stop a far-right putsch on the Court, but that is hardly one party rule."
con_1_6	Minority Party always argues for divided government	 Minority Party always argues for divided government Liz Sidoti. "McCain's Warning: Perils Of One-Party Rule". Huffington Post. 26 Oct. 2008 - "the Republicans did have one-party rule in 2000-2006 and really did have all three branches of government under their control. Can anyone think of any major Republican leader in that period who argued that it was a bad thing and who urged voters to cast ballots for Democrats in order to restore some checks and balances?"
headline_2	Governance: Does divided government offer better governance?
pro_2_1	Divided government lifts up better, more centrist ideas	 Divided government lifts up better, more centrist ideas Steve Chapman. "The Welcome Return of Divided Government". Real Clear Politics. 9 Nov. 2006 - "When federal power was last split, some of the GOP's good ideas became law: replacing welfare with workfare, curbing the growth of spending and forcing the government to live within its means. And many of its bad ideas -- authorizing state-sponsored prayer in schools, criminalizing leaks of classified material -- went nowhere."
pro_2_2	Divided government helps produce more lasting reforms	 Divided government helps produce more lasting reforms William A. Niskanen. "A Case for Divided Government". CATO. 7 May 2003 - "Point Two. The probability that a major reform will last is usually higher with a divided government because the necessity of bipartisan support is more likely to protect the reform against a subsequent change in the majority party.
pro_2_3	One-party rule increases government spending and excesses	 One-party rule increases government spending and excesses "Divided We Stand". Reason Online. February 2007 - "Our federal government serves us better (or maybe less badly) when at least one house of Congress is controlled by a different party than the party of the president. Under divided government, the rate of increase of real per capita federal spending has been significantly lower, a war is most unlikely, and so is a major increase in entitlements."
pro_2_4	One-party rule makes military spending and war more likely	 One-party rule makes military spending and war more likely William A. Niskanen. "A Case for Divided Government". CATO. 7 May 2003 - "Point Three. The prospect of a major war is usually higher with a united government, and the current war makes that clear.[..]Each of the four major American wars in the 20th century, for example, was initiated by a Democratic president with the approval of a Congress controlled by Democrats. The war in Iraq, initiated by a Republican president with the support of a Republican Congress, is consistent with this pattern and has already proved to be the only use of U.S. military force lasting more than a few days that was initiated by a Republican president in over a century."
pro_2_5	One-party rule increases govt intrusions on civil liberties	 One-party rule increases govt intrusions on civil liberties Lisa Snell. "Divided We Stand". Reason Online. February 2007 - "Every American concerned about excessive government intrusion into our lives should greet with optimism the return to a system of partisan checks and balances[...]The last four years have witnessed an unprecedented level of government interference in individual lives. While National Security Agency wiretapping and detainee rights have attracted much attention, examples of abuse of power in other arenas abound, such as the Drug Enforcement Administration’s raids on medical marijuana patients."
pro_2_6	One-party rule is no more productive than divided government	 One-party rule is no more productive than divided government David R. Mayhew, in a book called Divided We Govern (1991), examined the whole postwar period and concluded that, all else being equal, "unified party control contributes nothing to the volume of important enactments."[6]
pro_2_7	One-party rule under Bush administration was a failure	 One-party rule under Bush administration was a failure. Jonathan Rauch. "When One Party Rules, Both Parties Fail". The Atlantic. 7 Nov. 2006 - "a search for policies enacted since 2003 that have enjoyed either substantive success or broad public support yields results that can only be called dispiriting. No other four-year period in memory looks as bleak."
con_2_1	Divided government impedes sound governance	 Divided government impedes sound governance "The One-Party Rule Scare". Connecting The Dots. 27 Oct. 2008 - "Since Americans have an innate mistrust of concentrated power, the notion [of divided government] could gain traction for voters with short memories. They would have to forget the past two years [2006-2008] of 'checks and balances' [a Republican president and Democratic Congress] that prevented extending health care to impoverished children and setting reasonable timetables for withdrawal from Iraq, among other majority desires."
con_2_2	The most successful US presidencies enjoyed one-party rule	 The most successful US presidencies enjoyed one-party rule "Down with Divided Government". The New Republic. 27 Oct. 2008 - "Let’s first look at those past administrations that enjoyed singular success. Most lists would include George Washington’s two terms, Abraham Lincoln’s presidency, Theodore Roosevelt’s (just about) two terms, and Franklin Roosevelt’s four terms. A longer list not based on consensus might include Thomas Jefferson’s first term, Andrew Jackson’s two terms, Woodrow Wilson’s first term, Harry Truman’s two terms, and Ronald Reagan’s two terms. Of the consensus choices, all enjoyed a united government (in George Washington’s days, there were not really parties)."
con_2_3	The worst US presidencies involved divided government	 The worst US presidencies involved divided government "Down with Divided Government". The New Republic. 27 Oct. 2008 - Now let’s look at the more disastrous moments in the history of American administrations--where charges of impeachment were brought, and recriminations paralyzed the government. That would have to include the administrations of Andrew Johnson, Richard Nixon, and Bill Clinton--all instances of divided government. I’d also add the last two years of Wilson’s second term when divided government (and Wilson’s illness) set America on the track of irresponsibility in foreign and domestic policy. So if you look at America’s moments of glory and ignominy, the conclusion is inescapable: divided government is a curse, not a blessing, and should be avoided, if at all possible.
con_2_4	One-party rule helps a government respond to crises	 One-party rule helps a government respond to crises Michael Kinsley. "McCain's Last Mistake. Undivided government won't be as bad as he warned it would be." Slate. 4 Nov. 2008 - "If you really long for change, divided government is the last thing you should want. In a parliamentary system, like the one in Britain, divided government is impossible. You vote for the party, not the person. Whichever party wins the most seats or can cobble together a majority through alliances with other parties gets to form a government and choose a prime minister. The winning party is generally able to enact its agenda. More important, that party can be held accountable if it does not enact its agenda or if it does and the policies fail."
con_2_5	Good one-party rule requires following people's will	 Good one-party rule requires following people's will "GOP Candidates Warn Against One-Party Rule". Washington Post. 26 Oct. 2008 - "The key is to keep the mandate straight, said Rep. Rahm Emanuel, a member of the House leadership and a senior Clinton White House aide. "There are certain things that people this year are voting for and certain things they're voting against. We'll be successful as a party if we're known as the party of reform. We will be unsuccessful if we do things the way they've always been done."
con_2_6	Pursuing divided government is premised on fear of politics	 Pursuing divided government is premised on fear of politics Michael Kinsley. "McCain's Last Mistake. Undivided government won't be as bad as he warned it would be." Slate. 4 Nov. 2008 - "People who want divided government are afraid of politics. They imagine that under divided government, the wise elders of both parties would sit around a table and "rise above politics" with pragmatic solutions for everything. But it doesn't work that way, and it shouldn't. Our disagreements are generally about trade-offs—money for some new government benefit, the blood of our young for some foreign-policy goal, freedom for protection from terrorists, bureaucracy for the safety of drugs or cars or financial derivatives. All of these trade-offs could be settled by letting some board of elders split the difference. But then it wouldn't be much of a democracy, would it?"
con_2_7	Divided government is a bad idea when parties are polarized.	Divided government is a bad idea when parties are polarized. When there are many centrists in a government, opposing political parties can better come together to reach compromises and take action. But, when political parties are more polarized, it is more difficult for a divided government to find common ground and take action.
headline_3	Voters: Do voters seek divided government?
pro_3_1	Voters prefer divided government over one-party rule	 Voters prefer divided government over one-party rule "Divided We Stand". The Atlantic. October 2004 - "The voters like divided government (shorthand for when one party controls the White House and the other controls at least one house of Congress). That is what they tell pollsters, and that is how they vote, having given control of both branches to one party in fewer than five of the past twenty-four years (1993-1994, half of 2001, and 2003-2004)."
con_3_1	Voters preferred on-party rule in 2008 US elections	 Voters preferred on-party rule in 2008 US elections Linda Feldmann. "Ups and downs in history of one-party rule". Christian Science Monitor. 28 Oct. 2008 - "the American public is showing unprecedented support for one-party rule in Washington, according to the latest Washington Post-ABC News poll. Fifty percent of likely voters say they would prefer that the same party control both the White House and Congress, a new high for that poll. Thirty percent said they wanted split-party rule."
con_3_2	Voters do not actually choose divided government	 Voters do not actually choose divided government Michael Kinsley. "McCain's Last Mistake. Undivided government won't be as bad as he warned it would be." Slate. 4 Nov. 2008 - "almost no one actually chooses divided government. Almost everyone who votes for Obama also votes Democratic for the Senate and the House. Ditto McCain and the Republicans. Divided government results when those totals are close, and just a few ticket-splitters can produce a divided result. McCain was not asking voters to split their tickets. He was urging Republicans tempted to vote for Obama not to split their tickets, for fear that undivided government would be the result."
headline_4	Corruption: Does divided government help fighting corruption?
pro_4_1	One-party rule leads to corruption	 One-party rule leads to corruption Michael Merritt. "The Case For Divided Government". PoliGazette. July 8th, 2008. - "So why is having unified government so bad? Well, for starters, it leads to all sorts of corruption. You only need to look at the Jack Abramoff, Tom Delay and Mark Foley scandals to see what can happen when politicians get too comfortable with their own power. … As well as scandals in Congress, scandals in the executive branch can also go unchecked with unified government. Just look at the U.S. Attorney scandal, treatment of enemy combatants, and others."
con_4_1	Political corruption exists in divided government too	 Political corruption exists in divided government too "The Case That Divided Government is Irrelevant". 2008 Central. 8 Jul. 2008 - "Corruption is a worry not for divided government, but for parties that have any power whatsoever. As appealing as it would be if no party had power, that seems unrealistic. Moreover, it’s not just Republicans that have a monopoly on corruption; Democrats like William Jefferson are not squeaky clean, either.
