title	McCain vs. Obama
question	Who is the better candidate for the US Presidency?
headline_1	Judgment: Which candidates has a better record of judgement?
headline_2	Experience: Does McCain have more experience than Obama?
pro_2_1	Modern US crises require McCain's experience and steady hand	 Modern US crises require McCain's experience and steady hand "Editorial: We recommend John McCain for president". Dallas Morning News. 18 Oct. 2008 - "In better times, America could afford to consider entrusting the White House to an appealing newcomer like Mr. Obama and giving control of the presidency and Congress to the same party. But in this time of great anxiety, the American people need a leader of experience guiding the ship of state. Mr. McCain offers the continuity, stability and sense of authority people want, as well as a decisive break from the Bush years." 
pro_2_2	McCain's long record of experience far outshines Obama's	 McCain's long record of experience far outshines Obama's John McCain has been in office for 25 years. Barack Obama has only beeen in government for nearly 10 years so John McCain has significantly more experience to run America.  
pro_2_3	Obama lacks the experience necessary to be an effective president	 Obama lacks the experience necessary to be an effective president. A Rasmussen poll found, "As the general election campaign gets started, 41% of voters nationwide say that Barack Obama is too inexperienced to be President..."[2]
pro_2_4	McCain has been tempered by adversity more than Obama	 McCain has been tempered by adversity more than Obama McCain has led a life filled with challenges and adversity, starting with his years as a prisoner of war in Vietnam. This has tempered McCain and prepared him for the presidency in a way that Obama has not been prepared.
pro_2_5	McCain has a wide range of interests and experience	 McCain has a wide range of interests and experience "The case for John McCain". The Economist. 6 Dec 2007 - "Mr McCain's qualifications extend beyond character. Take experience. His range of interests as a senator has been remarkable, extending from immigration to business regulation."
pro_2_6	McCain has abundant foreign policy national security experience.	McCain has abundant foreign policy national security experience. Obama's childhood years abroad and poor background in foreign policy cannot provide him with sufficient knowledge and judgment in these important issues [3]. In this critical time of US foreign policy, it is important we elect a commander-in-chief who can make the best judgment about these challenges.
con_2_1	War and senatorial experience does not give McCain leadership experience.	War and senatorial experience does not give McCain leadership experience. Just because McCain almost died in a war and has been a senator for a jillion years does not mean that he has leadership experience. Being the President of the United States requires a little bit more if you ask me. Obama has showed great power in the senate while McCain before 2 years ago has been pretty quiet. Obama is young and ready to make change. This change hasnt been the best, but could McCain have done better? I will let you decide. 
con_2_2	Obama understands world and America's place in it	 Obama understands world and America's place in it "Barack Obama for President". Washington Post. 17 Oct. 2008 - "But Mr. Obama, as anyone who reads his books can tell, also has a sophisticated understanding of the world and America's place in it. He, too, is committed to maintaining U.S. leadership and sticking up for democratic values, as his recent defense of tiny Georgia makes clear." 
con_2_3	Obama's diverse global background is valuable.	Obama's diverse global background is valuable. Obama was born to a father of Kenyan descent, has a white mother, lived in Indonesia in his youth, and has traveled to Kenya to visit his grandmother. He certainly is a diverse person with a diverse background. This is valuable in many ways to how he thinks about the world. Generally, it is likely to give him a more holistic view of the world. 
con_2_4	Obama would be a fresh, uncorrupted face in the White House	 Obama would be a fresh, uncorrupted face in the White House While experience can be seen as a virtue, it can also be viewed as a liability, in the sense that experience within the Washington Beltway, which Clinton has, can have a corrupting influence. Obama, conversely, is a fresh face on the American political scene. As such he embodies the fundamental change that Washington, DC so desperately needs. He has not been stuck in the Washington, DC "beltway", which has kept him clear of much of the corruption and influence that can occur as a result of this.
con_2_5	Obama has a strong record of legislative achievement	 Obama has a strong record of legislative achievement Obama has a very strong legislative history as a US Senator. The Daily Kos lists 19 legislative successes for Obama during his Senate career while only 13 legislative successes for Clinton. It is argued that Obama's record of successes is, in large part, due to his ability to convince other Senators to support his legislation. Clinton, with a more divisive history, does not appear to have this same capacity.    
con_2_6	McCain's long career in Senate is a negative	 McCain's long career in Senate is a negative "Is McCain too old? Is Obama too young?". LA Times. 12 June 2008 - "The Senate is not a particularly good training ground for a presidential career. Its titans are masters of securing consensus from a few dozen other senators and some key players in the House. It is a place of subtle power plays and the political long game. The president, on the other hand, must be able to manage the vast federal executive branch, directly marshal voter support for his initiatives and take full and personal responsibility for any projects that fail. One can make a convincing argument that the longer a politician spends as a legislator, the less qualified he becomes for the office of commander in chief."
headline_3	Education/intelligence: Which candidate is better on this account?
headline_4	Integrity: Is McCain better than Obama on this account?
pro_4_1	McCain is a uniquely honorable patriot and statesman	  McCain is a uniquely honorable patriot and statesman Senator John McCain served his country with honor in Vietnam, and has continued to serve his country with patriotic distinction, always putting his country first. 
pro_4_2	McCain has the integrity to place principle before politics	 McCain has the integrity to place principle before politics. The Economist.com wrote about McCain in December of 2007, "he has repeatedly risked his political career by backing unpopular causes."[6]
pro_4_3	Obama's move to center for general elections lacks integrity	 Obama's move to center for general elections lacks integrity "What does Barack Obama truly believe? Does it depend on the day of the week?". New York Post. - True, candidates typically tack to the center after contentious primaries. But the "candidate of change" is taking that process to Twilight Zone levels. Last fall, a spokesman said of a controversial element in the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act reauthorization bill, 'To be clear: Barack will support a filibuster of any bill that includes retroactive immunity for telecommunications companies.' This week, Obama declared his support for a FISA bill that included just such immunity." [read the full article here] 
pro_4_4	Obama voted present too often when in the Illinois Senate.	Obama voted "present" too often when in the Illinois Senate. Though Obama's political career is impressive, his legislative record in his own state of Illinois only shows that he rarely takes a firm stand, especially on tough issues like abortion, juvenile crime. According to Boston.com, "Obama acknowledges that over nearly eight years in the Illinois Senate, he voted "present" 129 times. That was out of roughly 4,000 votes he cast, so those "presents" amounted to about one of every 31 votes in his legislative career." [7]. Even Kirk Watson (D), a fervent Obama supporter stumped on Obama's real legislative accomplishments 
con_4_1	Obama represents the best of American qualities	 Obama represents the best of American qualities "Tribune endorsement: Barack Obama for president". Chicago Tribune. October 17, 2008 - "Obama is deeply grounded in the best aspirations of this country, and we need to return to those aspirations. He has had the character and the will to achieve great things despite the obstacles that he faced as an unprivileged black man in the U.S...He has risen with his honor, grace and civility intact. He has the intelligence to understand the grave economic and national security risks that face us, to listen to good advice and make careful decisions."
con_4_2	Obama is willing to tell Americans uncomfortable truths	 Obama is willing to tell Americans uncomfortable truths Susan Estrich. "Blue Streak: The Case for Obama". Fox News. 12 June 2007 - "He is telling people, as more than one commentator has called it, "the inconvenient truths," whether to the black community about the need to stop denigrating those who speak well for being too white or the Jewish community about the need to recognize Palestinian suffering."
con_4_3	McCain tried to circumvent campaign-finance rules he created	 McCain tried to circumvent campaign-finance rules he created "McCain's integrity problem". Economist.com., Democracy in America Blog. 23 Feb. - "WE referenced it earlier in the week, but let's be a little more clear about how John McCain tried to circumvent campaign-finance rules that he helped create. Last year, when Mr McCain's campaign appeared moribund, the senator applied to join the presidential public financing system. Under this programme Mr McCain agreed to certain spending limits and, in turn, received access to federal matching money. (Sidenote: It's a terrible system that is basically designed to keep losers in the race.)"
headline_5	Inspiration: How do the candidates compare as far as their inspirational capacity?
pro_5_1	McCain will put country first in solving challenges in US	 McCain will put country first in solving challenges in US "The Examiner endorses McCain-Palin". Baltimore Examiner. 24 Sept. 2008 - "America is at war overseas and in an economic crisis here at home. Many of her citizens believe the country is on the wrong track. It is for times such as these that men like John McCain are made, to put country first so that it can be put right in its time of need. For this reason, The Examiner endorses McCain for president and his running mate, Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin, for vice president."
pro_5_2	Obama's hope is mostly hype	 Obama's "hope" is mostly hype "The triumph of hope over experience?" The Economist. Dec 13th 2007 - "hope does not balance budgets, craft alliances or reform schools. It certainly does not prove that Mr Obama would be the best, or even a good, president."
pro_5_3	John McCain is a patriotic war hero	 John McCain is a patriotic war hero "The case for John McCain". The Economist. 6 Dec 2007 - "Mr McCain is such a familiar figure that it is easy to forget how remarkable he is. He fought heroically in Vietnam, spending more than five years as a prisoner-of-war, when many other politicians of his generation discovered, like Dick Cheney, that they had 'other priorities'."
pro_5_4	John McCain is trustworthy and loyal	 John McCain is trustworthy and loyal Sen. Bob Dole - "He's a good man - the kind of man I'd want to be in a fox-hole with me... He'd be a good president."[8]
pro_5_5	Barack Obama is no John F. Kennedy	 Barack Obama is no John F. Kennedy Ted Widmer. "Ask Not! Why Obama is No JFK". Washington Monthly. January 2008 - 
pro_5_6	Obama made too many campaign promises to fulfill them all	 Obama made too many campaign promises to fulfill them all "Joseph W. McQuaid: America's choice this Tuesday". Union Leader. 2 Nov. 2008 - "Those who believe Obama's claims that he will reduce 95 percent of Americans' taxes, while he pays for near-universal health care, subsidizes clean energy, expands our military commitment in Afghanistan, adds to mass transit and highway infrastructure, etc., etc., are living in a dream world."
con_5_1	Barack Obama is an uplifting and inspirational figure	 Barack Obama is an uplifting and inspirational figure "Obama for president". The Atlantic. 4 Nov. 2008 - "Positive: The tone, the policies, the cast of mind, the talent, and, yes, the hope consistently represented by Obama during these past two years on the trail. If he is elected, disappointment will certainly follow. The expectations now projected upon him far exceed what any mortal can achieve.  But to give the country a new chance, a leader must inspire, and he can."
con_5_2	Obama's charisma and persuasiveness help rally people around actions	 Obama's charisma and persuasiveness help rally people around actions. Making bold changes in America requires first that people's attitudes be changed. Changing attitudes is not easy at all, and requires profound persuasion. Obama, more than Clinton, has the ability to persuade in this way.  
con_5_3	Obama has articulated a better vision for America	 Obama has articulated a better vision for America "Newsday editorial board endorses Barack Obama". Newsday. 1 Nov. 2008 - "He has articulated a more compelling vision and strategy for the nation than has Republican John McCain, at a time when both are desperately needed. Obama has railed eloquently against the politics of fear and ideological combat, and promoted inclusiveness and cooperation. He has a strong grasp of the nation's economic problems, a more urgent commitment to the green energy revolution and a better plan for expanding access to health care. On issues such as Iraq, taxes and trade, he should practice the bipartisanship he promises, but has yet to demonstrate, by remaining open to alternative views. Still, on balance, Obama offers the better way forward."
con_5_4	Obama inspires people to become better citizens.	Obama inspires people to become better citizens. Obama's oratory abilities are very high. People often call him "poetic" in this way. This oratory ability has been a defining feature of the best presidents and leaders in American and world history. The reason is very straight forward; it causes people to have pride in their leaders, trust in the direction their leaders are taking the country, and hope in the future ahead. This often leads individuals to act more ethically, work harder, and generally hold themselves to a higher ethical standard. In short, inspiration matters, and the main vehicle for inspiration is inspirational oratory.
con_5_5	Obama is leading a movement for change, not just a campaign	 Obama is leading a movement for change, not just a campaign Obama has stirred up so much energy and excitement among his followers that his campaign and its supporters have been described as a "movement". This "movement" can and should be harnessed for positive social change. 
con_5_6	Barack Obama is a modern day JFK or Bobby Kennedy	 Barack Obama is a modern day JFK or Bobby Kennedy "Seeing Bobby Kennedy in Barack Obama". Mother Jones. 5 June 2008
headline_6	Bi-partisanship: Is one candidate better than the other on this front?
pro_6_1	McCain is a Maverick that places principle before party	 McCain is a Maverick that places principle before party "Editorial: We recommend John McCain for president". Dallas Morning News. 18 Oct. 2008 - "Only one candidate has a solid record of standing up to his own party on principle and working hand in hand with legislators from the opposing party to get things done." 
pro_6_2	Obama is too liberal to unify America and act as president	 Obama is too liberal to unify America and act as president Peter Wehner. "How McCain Should Take On Obama". Real Clear Politics. February 19, 2008 - "The area where Obama is vulnerable is his record, as brief as it is, and his stated positions. Senator Obama is a completely orthodox liberal -- the most liberal person in the Senate in 2007, according to National Journal -- in a nation that is not. Why hasn't this fact hurt Obama so far? Because his two main opponents in the Democratic race, Hillary Clinton and John Edwards, haven't advertised Obama's liberalism. They are essentially as liberal as Obama is, so that political arrow has been removed from their quiver. Hillary Clinton has therefore been forced to criticize Obama for his lack of experience -- even though her own experience is quite thin and her past forays into policy have been disastrous (her mishandled health care plan helped the GOP win 52 House seats in 1994 and gave them control of the House for the first time in four decades)."
pro_6_3	McCain's has a soundly conservative Republican record	McCain's has a soundly conservative Republican record.
pro_6_4	McCain is just as conservative as Ronald Reagan was	McCain is just as conservative as Ronald Reagan was.
pro_6_5	Obama does not have a history of being a bridge-builder	 Obama does not have a history of being a bridge-builder "Obama’s Test: Can a Liberal Be a Unifier?". New York Times. 25 Mar. 2005 - "Mr. Obama does not come to the campaign with a reputation as one of the most accommodating bridge-builders in the Senate."
con_6_1	Obama can unify America to meet its challenges	 Obama can unify America to meet its challenges. Obama has said, referring to himself, "we need a leader who can finally move beyond the divisive politics of Washington and bring Democrats, independents and Republicans together to get things done."[9]
con_6_2	Obama will not govern from the left, but from the center	 Obama will not govern from the left, but from the center "Tribune endorsement: Barack Obama for president". Chicago Tribune. October 17, 2008 - "Obama would govern as much more of a pragmatic centrist than many people expect."
con_6_3	John McCain has run a divisive campaign	 John McCain has run a divisive campaign "Barack Obama for President". New York Times. 23 Oct. 2008 - "Senator John McCain of Arizona has retreated farther and farther to the fringe of American politics, running a campaign on partisan division, class warfare and even hints of racism."
headline_7	Change: How important is change? Is it wrong to cite McCain as another Bush?
pro_7_1	McCain offers the right kind of change	 McCain offers the right kind of change "Editorial: We recommend John McCain for president". Dallas Morning News. 18 Oct. 2008 - "Americans want change, yes, but banking on change alone is a risky proposition. Both Barack Obama and John McCain offer new deals to a tense, weary nation."
pro_7_2	Only McCain has actually made change happen	 Only McCain has actually made change happen "Editorial: We recommend John McCain for president". Dallas Morning News. 18 Oct. 2008 - "The Democrat talks about change, but only the Republican has made change happen."
pro_7_3	McCain will fight corruption and clean-up Washington	 McCain will fight corruption and clean-up Washington "The Examiner endorses McCain-Palin". SF Examiner. 24 Sept. 2008 - "Domestically, McCain is unique in never seeking an earmark to benefit a family member, political ally back home, or financial contributor. As president, he will veto all earmarks and other pork barrel spending. He believes Americans know better than government how best to spend their hard-earned money, and he promises – in words that make many of his colleagues in Congress swallow very hard – to make famous those in government who waste or steal tax dollars."
pro_7_4	McCain is not George W. Bush.	McCain is not George W. Bush. John McCain is not George W. Bush and therefore you cannot call him that. John McCain may be a republican, but that doesn't mean he will take the same approach to things as Bush did.
con_7_1	Obama is a break from a Republican administration.	Obama is a break from a Republican administration. Republican President Bush has been been in office for 8 years. It is time for a change from this. Obama represents a clear break from the Bush-years, while McCain represent a less distinct change.
con_7_2	McCain offers four more years of Bush's failed policies	 McCain offers four more years of Bush's failed policies Hillary Clinton. "The man for the moment: Hillary Clinton makes the case for Barack Obama". Daily News. 2 Nov. 2008 - "President Bush has practiced what Sen. John McCain has preached. We know that Sen. McCain and the Republicans are only offering more of the same." 
con_7_3	Obama can help clean up economic mess Bush created	 Obama can help clean up economic mess Bush created Hillary Clinton. "The man for the moment: Hillary Clinton makes the case for Barack Obama". Daily News. 2 Nov. 2008 - "Democrats must once again clean up an economic mess the Republicans left behind. We've done it before, and we'll do it again...By the close of the Clinton administration, America had created 22 million new jobs. Our nation built a new economy with the lowest child poverty rate in 20 years. Wages were rising and prosperity was shared. The country produced balanced budgets and a surplus. Now, eight years later, they had to add a digit to the national debt clock."
headline_8	Security: Which candidate would better advance national and international security?
pro_8_1	John McCain's foreign policy experience is second to none	 John McCain's foreign policy experience is second to none "The case for John McCain". The Economist. 6 Dec 2007 - "He knows as much about foreign affairs and military issues as anybody in public life."
pro_8_2	McCain has much more national security experience than Obama	 McCain has much more national security experience than Obama McCain has a lot of experience within the military so he will do better at helping resolve situations relating to the military. And the military looks after some of the world's biggest issues like the Iraq war.
pro_8_3	Obama's time in Indonesia did not provide foreign policy experience	 Obama's time in Indonesia did not provide foreign policy experience Ted Widmer. "Ask Not!. Why Obama is No JFK". Washington Monthly. January 2008 - "Obama lived as a boy in Indonesia—a big, fascinating country, but not central to U.S. global strategy. If that childhood experience had a genuine impact beyond teaching him the obvious truth that the world is diverse, then he needs to make it clearer how he will translate that knowledge into sound policy."
con_8_1	Electing Obama will improve image of US as a tolerant nation	 Electing Obama will improve image of US as a tolerant nation "Overseas, Excitement Over Obama In Presumptive Nominee". Washington Post. 5 June, 2008 - "'This is close to a miracle. I was certain that some things will not happen in my lifetime,' said Sunila Patel, 62, a widow encountered on the streets of New Delhi. 'A black president of the U.S. will mean that there will be more American tolerance for people around the world who are different.'"
con_8_2	Obama can help bridge gap between Muslim and Christian worlds	 Obama can help bridge gap between Muslim and Christian worlds "The triumph of hope over experience?". The Economist. Dec 13th 2007 - "As someone who was educated in Indonesia and has an understanding of Islam that no other candidate shares, he could do much to bridge the deadly gulf between Christian and Muslim states."
headline_9	Iraq War policy: Whose policy is better?
pro_9_1	Obama's Iraq policy wrongly denies progress there	 Obama's Iraq policy wrongly denies progress there "The Iraqi Upturn." Washington Post. 1 June 2008 "While Washington's attention has been fixed elsewhere, military analysts have watched with astonishment as the Iraqi government and army have gained control for the first time of the port city of Basra and the sprawling Baghdad neighborhood of Sadr City, routing the Shiite militias that have ruled them for years and sending key militants scurrying to Iran. At the same time, Iraqi and U.S. forces have pushed forward with a long-promised offensive in Mosul, the last urban refuge of al-Qaeda. So many of its leaders have now been captured or killed that U.S. Ambassador Ryan C. Crocker, renowned for his cautious assessments, said that the terrorists have 'never been closer to defeat than they are now.' ..... Still, the rapidly improving conditions should allow U.S. commanders to make some welcome adjustments -- and it ought to mandate an already-overdue rethinking by the 'this-war-is-lost' caucus in Washington, including Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.)."
pro_9_2	The Iraq war is justified by events; the world is safer.	 The Iraq war is justified by events; the world is safer. Saddam Hussein is out of power and no longer a shadowy hazard and menace to the region. It is no longer possible for Saddam Hussein to re-build Iraq's WMD. Iraq now has the opportunity to grow into a democratic state, if it chooses. These are welcome developments, despite the costs of the war.  This opinion is in line with McCain's policy.
pro_9_3	Withdrawing early will destroy the democratic potential of Iraq	Withdrawing early will destroy the democratic potential of Iraq Iraq has great potential to become a bastion of democracy and secularism in the Middle East. Withdrawing early jeopardizes this historic opportunity. It would also, therefore, undermine the spread of democracy in the Middle East generally.
pro_9_4	Many Iraqis support the continued presence of US forces	 Many Iraqis support the continued presence of US forces Sheikh Mahmood Ejemi, head of the Ejmani tribe in Hiyt, believes the improved security could quickly unravel without sufficient US support. - "I advise the Americans to withdraw only when Iraqis can secure and achieve security and have a strong and capable military force to protect the borders and the populace. We need to have a national government that protects Iraqis, not works to isolate and kill them, like it is doing now. We need US support in fighting sectarian militias and al-Qaeda."[10]
pro_9_5	An early withdrawal from Iraq would be highly risky to exiting troops	 An early withdrawal from Iraq would be highly risky to exiting troops Retired Maj. Gen. Robert Scales, a former commandant of the Army War College, told National Journal in 2007 - "There's an old military adage that the most dangerous and hazardous of all military maneuvers is a withdrawal of forces while in contact with the enemy. That's the operation all of us soldiers fear the most,"[11]
con_9_1	The invasion of Iraq was illegal, making a withdrawal necessary	 The invasion of Iraq was illegal, making a withdrawal necessary "Iraq war illegal, says Annan". BBC. September 16th, 2007 - "When pressed on whether he viewed the invasion of Iraq as illegal, he said: 'Yes, if you wish. I have indicated it was not in conformity with the UN charter from our point of view, from the charter point of view, it was illegal.'" There are two basic justifications for this claim. First, the UN charter only allows for self-defensive wars in cases where the threat is imminent. The threat was not imminent in Iraq's case. Second, exceptions to self-defensive wars require UN approval through Security Council resolutions. No explicit authorization was provided by the UN to the US and coalition forces to wage war. UN resolutions only mentioned "serious consequences" in the event of Iraqi non-compliance with inspectors. "Serious consequences" is certainly not the terminology used by the UN to authorize war; "all necessary means" are the keywords that authorize war, and they were not provided in any UN resolution. Thus, the war was illegal and coalition forces have no legal basis for continued operations in Iraq.
con_9_2	Iraq will not become a model democracy; US shouldn't stay for this	 Iraq will not become a model democracy; US shouldn't stay for this The democratic potential of Iraq is non-existent. It is a false hope. It is wrong, therefore, to maintain this hope as a justification for remaining in Iraq. 
con_9_3	The Iraqi parliament has called for the United States to withdrawal	 The Iraqi parliament has called for the United States to withdrawal Barack Obama's vision for a timetable withdrawal fits, therefore, much more consistently with Iraqi's overwhelming demands.
con_9_4	Prolonging Iraq War will permanently damage US military	 Prolonging Iraq War will permanently damage US military "A responsible plan to the end the war in Iraq." 2008, Democratic plan - "Our capacity to respond with overwhelming force has been a powerful deterrent. Our military capabilities and readiness, however, have been deeply damaged by this war. Both our troops and our military equipment have been seriously depleted. Our forces are stretched so thin that we are unprepared to defend our country.6 Many of our best and brightest officers are choosing to leave military service.7 Under the grinding strain of constant wartime use, a dangerously high percentage of our military equipment is damaged, gone, or unavailable to units who might need it.8 Our dependence on private military contractors9 and the politicization of some of the upper echelons of the military compromise the professionalism which had been a hallmark of our forces10. And the nationalization of the state National Guards presents a further threat by hampering our ability to respond to emergencies at home."
headline_10	Economics: Who has the better economic and tax plan?
pro_10_1	McCain tax policies are better than Obama's	 McCain tax policies are better than Obama's "Post Endorses John McCain". New York Post. 8 Sept. 2008 - "Taxes: McCain knows that when government absorbs ever-larger shares of national income, the economy suffers...High tax rates diminish investment, killing jobs and stunting growth...And while Obama promises tax cuts for "95 percent" of Americans, what he actually is proposing is some $650 billion in tax-credit-driven hikes in entitlement and other spending, to be paid for with heavier imposts across the board, but especially on investment - like a sharply higher capital-gains tax...This is bad news for the millions of ordinary Americans who own stocks, either personally or through pension funds or who plan someday to sell their homes or other real property."
con_10_1	McCain will help fight inequality; McCain will not	 McCain will help fight inequality; McCain will not "Barack Obama for President". Washington Post. 17 Oct. 2008 - "Mr. Obama offers a great deal more than being not a Republican. There are two sets of issues that matter most in judging these candidacies. The first has to do with restoring and promoting prosperity and sharing its fruits more evenly in a globalizing era that has suppressed wages and heightened inequality. Here the choice is not a close call. Mr. McCain has little interest in economics and no apparent feel for the topic. His principal proposal, doubling down on the Bush tax cuts, would exacerbate the fiscal wreckage and the inequality simultaneously. Mr. Obama's economic plan contains its share of unaffordable promises, but it pushes more in the direction of fairness and fiscal health."
con_10_2	McCain adopted same failed economic policies as Bush	 McCain adopted same failed economic policies as Bush "Obama for president". Boston Globe. 13 Oct. 2008 - "Vague unease about the economy has turned into outright fear as the financial system sank into quicksand and 500-point-plus plunges on the stock market have become a near-daily occurrence. Obama’s opponent, Senator John McCain, would try to solve all these problems by going back to the same Republican set of tools: tough talk abroad, tax cuts for the richest at home."
headline_11	McCain, war hero? Is John McCain a war hero?
pro_11_1	McCain was very brave when held captive in Vietnam.	McCain was very brave when held captive in Vietnam. On the other side it states that Mccain was brave but NOT smart in battle. In battle you need more brave people than you need smart people in order to get anything accomplished. Mccain put his life on the line for this country, that despite what he did can truly be called honorable brave. 
pro_11_2	John McCain is a decorated war hero.	John McCain is a decorated war hero. McCain has many medals of honor, including the Silver Star, a Legion of Merit for Valor, a Distinguished Flying Cross, three Bronze Stars, two Commendation medals plus two Purple Hearts and a dozen service gongs.[12]
con_11_1	McCain war record shows bravery, not wisdom	 McCain war record shows bravery, not wisdom Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the libertarian Cato Institute, said that McCain's war record, "simply shows he was a very brave man. But it shows neither wisdom nor judgment."[13] 
con_11_2	McCain's false confession to committing war crimes was dishonorable.	McCain's false confession to committing war crimes was dishonorable. Under duress in Vietnam, McCain falsely admitted that he had committed war crimes. With all due respect to McCain's service to the country, this was a show of weakness and considered, by McCain's own admission, a dishonorable act. 
con_11_3	McCain was dropping bombs in the unjust Vietnam war	 McCain was dropping bombs in the unjust Vietnam war 
headline_12	Obama's age: Is Obama too young to be president?
pro_12_1	Obama is simply too young to be president	 Obama is simply too young to be president "It's Too Soon, Senator. On Nov. 4. 2008, Obama will be 47 years old. He will have served in the Senate for less than four years and in elected office for little more than a decade. Even assuming a Democrat wins the White House and is reelected in 2012, Obama will only be in his mid-50s when the 2016 election comes around."
con_12_1	Obama is 46 and plenty old enough to be president	 Obama is 46 and plenty old enough to be president Laura Sonneborn-Turetsky. "Obama is NOT Too Young". The Knight News. 6 June 2008 - "Barack Obama is 46 years old. There are several qualifications one must meet in order to become president of the United States. One of these is the '35 or older age requirement.' It is true that the United States is not the same country it was when the constitution was written. The responsibility of president has grown tremendously. Still, it is worth mentioning that not only does he make the cut, but he does it by 11 years."
con_12_2	Obama would be older than many past presidents	 Obama would be older than many past presidents "Obama Is Not Too Young". Santa Barbara Independent. January 31, 2008 - "In terms of age, Sen. Obama turns 47 in August, older than recent presidents Kennedy (43) and Clinton (46) upon their inaugurations."
headline_13	McCain's Age: Is McCain's age not a problem?
pro_13_1	Age as a stereotype that should not be used against McCain.	Age as a stereotype that should not be used against McCain. When people think of the old, the first thing they think of is this old man walking on a cane giving advice. Mccain isn't exactly on a cane but he is experienced and wise.  
pro_13_2	John McCain is energetic and young at heart	 John McCain is energetic and young at heart "The case for John McCain". The Economist. 6 Dec 2007 - "The more persuasive reason for worrying about Mr McCain is his age. The senior senator for Arizona will be 72 if he takes office in January 2009—two years older than Ronald Reagan when he was inaugurated. But Mr McCain is an extraordinarily energetic 70-year-old, far more full of beans than many younger candidates. (“My philosophy is to just go, go like hell,” he says. “Full bore.”) The American constitution also provides an insurance mechanism against presidential death or illness. Provided Mr McCain chooses a sound vice-president, his many positive qualities outweigh worries about his age."
pro_13_3	John McCain has been given a full fill of health.	John McCain has been given a full fill of health. McCain's Doctor has verified that he is completely healthy with not outstanding issues. 
con_13_1	John McCain's old age is a serious handicap	 John McCain's old age is a serious handicap Megan McArdle. "Is McCain too old? Is Obama too young?". Los Angeles Times. June 12th, 2008 - "Polls show that voters do think that age is a handicap in a president, and they are right to think this: The presidency is a grueling position from which even relative young-uns such as Bill Clinton and George W. Bush have emerged looking prematurely ancient. It's reasonable to wonder if McCain's body is up to the task, particularly considering the abuse it took in Vietnam -- and the fact that his father died of a heart attack at the age of 70."
con_13_2	John McCain would be the oldest president ever to take office.	John McCain would be the oldest president ever to take office. At 72, McCain would be the oldest President to take office. He would be even older than Ronald Reagan when he took office. This is not a virtue, mainly because old age has been a factor in constraining the performance of past presidents. 
con_13_3	John McCain would likely lose his bearings while in office.	John McCain would likely "lose his bearings" while in office. It is common for seventy-year-olds to show signs of confusion, memory-loss, and dementia. It is better not to elect someone that is likely to experience these problems, and by which his ability to act effectively as president will be diminished.
con_13_4	McCain's age is a problem because Sarah Palin is unqualified.	McCain's age is a problem because Sarah Palin is unqualified. Chuck Norris said in January 2008. - "I didn't pick John to support because I'm just afraid that the vice president would wind up taking over his job in that four-year president."[14]
headline_14	Obama's race: Is it insignificant that Obama would be the first black president?
pro_14_1	Being black won't change policies.	Being black won't change policies. That Obama is black has no bearing on his policies. It is neither an advantage nor a disadvantage. It should not be raised, therefore, as something that will somehow promote racial equality by breaking historical barriers. To do so probably does more of a dis-service to racial equality than anything else.
con_14_1	Electing Barack Obama will advance racial equality	 Electing Barack Obama will advance racial equality Just because Obama is black dosent change how he thinks or who he is, or what policies he makes. The President is only as good as his house rep's. Everybody is the same on the inside, and i think it would be mature of America to elect a black president, and show that they are improving their racial standards, considering the racial violence and intolerance background that America has. 
headline_15	Other: Are there any other relevant arguments in this debate?
pro_15_1	Obama has history of relations with anti-American figures	 Obama has history of relations with anti-American figures "Top Ten Arguments Against Obama". The Big Picture. June 24, 2008 - "He has a 20-year history of close ties with people who hate America and say so. His official position is that he had no idea what his close friend Reverend Wright was like ("The statements that Rev. Wright made that are the cause of this controversy were not statements I personally heard him preach while I sat in the pews of Trinity or heard him utter in private conversation"), or what his business associate Tony Rezko was like ("this isn't the Tony Rezko I knew").
con_15_1	Obama can push America beyond quarrels of baby-boom generation	 Obama can push America beyond quarrels of baby-boom generation Andrew Sullivan. "Goodbye to All That: Why Obama Matters". Atlantic. December 2007 - Obama’s candidacy in this sense is a potentially transformational one. Unlike any of the other candidates, he could take America—finally—past the debilitating, self-perpetuating family quarrel of the Baby Boom generation that has long engulfed all of us. So much has happened in America in the past seven years, let alone the past 40, that we can be forgiven for focusing on the present and the immediate future. But it is only when you take several large steps back into the long past that the full logic of an Obama presidency stares directly—and uncomfortably—at you."
