title	Dividing Jerusalem
question	
headline_1	Peace process: Is dividing Jerusalem important to the peace process?
pro_1_1	Sharing Jerusalem is necessary to the peace process	 Sharing Jerusalem is necessary to the peace process Hady Amr, Director, Brookings Doha Center. "Shared Sovereignty, Jerusalem and the War of Ideas". Brookings Institute. 21 July 2007 - "At a recent closed-door gathering of former Israeli and Palestinian negotiators hosted at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution...had come to realize just how painful the issue of Jerusalem was for both sides, that neither side could feel whole without Jerusalem, and that separation arrangements were unworkable when emotions flared over a few feet of Jerusalem stone.
pro_1_2	Palestinians in East Jerusalem will not tolerate Israeli governance	 Palestinians in East Jerusalem will not tolerate Israeli governance Robert Sage. "Should Jerusalem be split between the Israelis and Palestinians?" Helium Election 2008 - "Palestinians would not consider leaving all of Jerusalem under the control of Israel to be a permanent solution. Simply put, continued Israeli security forces having control of Muslim areas would be a non-starter. They cannot be trusted by Muslims. They have not been fair or protective of Palestinians. Israeli officials have repeatedly been highly abusive of Palestinians. Also, Israeli security forces have been accepting of abusive Israeli civilian treatment of Palestinians."
pro_1_3	Unconventional division of Jerusalem can break cycle of violence	 Unconventional division of Jerusalem can break cycle of violence Hady Amr, Director, Brookings Doha Center. "Shared Sovereignty, Jerusalem and the War of Ideas". Brookings Institute. 21 July 2007 - "Sometimes and in some places, conflict is so intractable that all but the most unlikely solutions are fated to fail. In those times and places, we need to try methods that have not been considered in the hopes that unconventional solutions will offer opportunities not available through line-drawing. This is such a time; Jerusalem is such a place; shared sovereignty is such a solution. And the benefits can be global."
con_1_1	Dividing Jerusalem would shift the battle lines to the city	 Dividing Jerusalem would shift the battle lines to the city Nadav Shragai. "Envisioning a divided Jerusalem". Haaretz. - "Those who give the Palestinians control over the Temple Mount, the "outlying neighborhood" next to the Western Wall, will no longer be able to pray in peace at the Wall, or hold Memorial Day ceremonies or induction ceremonies for paratroopers there; nor will they be able to ensure the safety of the president or prime minister should either wish to participate in such ceremonies. Imagine the street battles in the alleys of Sajiyeh and Beit Hanun, in the Gaza Strip, transferred to the ancient streets of Jerusalem, which today teem with Jews. Think about how bar-mitzvah ceremonies or wedding pictures could be held at the Western Wall, or even plain old visits to place a note in the cracks, if Palestinians "controlled" the area a few hundred meters away." 
con_1_2	Palestinians in East Jerusalem prefer Israeli over PA rule	 Palestinians in East Jerusalem prefer Israeli over PA rule
con_1_3	Jerusalem is too interwoven to be neatly divided	 Jerusalem is too interwoven to be neatly divided Tim McGirk. "Jerusalem Divided". Time. 21 Nov. 2007 - "In 2000 President Bill Clinton, as part of a set of "parameters" he laid out for ending the conflict, proposed a legal split of the city, with Israel handing the Arab neighborhoods of East Jerusalem over to Palestinian rule. Such a formula presupposes that Jerusalem is capable of a neat division. But it is not. Somehow, any separation of the city into component parts has to recognize that there are myriad economic and cultural links among political adversaries. Moreover, the monuments and shrines of the Old City attract visitors from all over the world: Muslims who want to worship at al-Aqsa Mosque; Jews seeking to pray at the Western Wall; Christians keen to visit the Church of the Holy Sepulchre or follow the Stations of the Cross. Try as one might, it is not possible to count out the lanes of the Old City so that each of them is controlled by only one faith, one ethnicity. (Clinton proposed "shared functional sovereignty" for the Old City.) Dividing Jerusalem, says Daniel Seidemann, a lawyer and expert on Jerusalem affairs, is "a political impossibility and a historical inevitability. It will take microsurgery, and I'm afraid the politicians will go at it with a hatchet."
con_1_4	Dividing Jerusalem will fail, like all divided cities in history	 Dividing Jerusalem will fail, like all divided cities in history Roni Aloni-Sadovnik. "Dividing Jerusalem won't bring peace". Y Net News. 29 May 2006 - "In the city of Nicosia, for example, they decided to build a wall to separate Turkish and Greek Cypriots, but this failed to solve the economic or political aspects of the conflict between the two peoples. And in Berlin, the wall brought no positive results, and was eventually toppled by residents themselves.
con_1_5	Dividing Jerusalem will destroy the city	 Dividing Jerusalem will destroy the city Roni Aloni-Sadovnik. "Dividing Jerusalem won't bring peace". Y Net News. 29 May 2006 - "Yet there is a truth that has yet to be spoken: Any division of Jerusalem will bring about the city's destruction. Maybe, after 3,000 years of blood letting and destruction, the time has come to understand that the road to peace does not run through Jerusalem." 
headline_2	Claims: Do Israel and Palestine have equally valid claims to Jerusalem?
pro_2_1	Jerusalem can be shared; it need not be divided.	Jerusalem can be shared; it need not be "divided". It has been a Palestinian position that Jerusalem can "remain the capital of Israel" and can "remain undivided". This is a as long as that does not preclude the Palestinians from also having their capital in a "shared" city.[1] 
pro_2_2	Sharing Jerusalem is fairest trade-off between competing interests	 Sharing Jerusalem is fairest trade-off between competing interests Dennis Ross. "Don't Play With Maps". New York Times. January 9, 2007 - "The basic trade-offs require meeting Israeli needs on security and refugees on the one hand and Palestinian needs on territory and a capital in Arab East Jerusalem on the other."
pro_2_3	Israel misgoverns East Jerusalem; Palestinians should self-govern	 Israel misgoverns East Jerusalem; Palestinians should self-govern. Tim McGirk. "Jerusalem Divided". Time. 21 Nov. 2007 - "In a Jerusalem telephone book, for example, maps of Arab neighborhoods are blank, like unexplored parts of the Amazon in the 19th century. That's because no Arab sits on the municipal committee that chooses street names. On the rare occasion when the committee bothers with East Jerusalem, it is to irritate the Arabs by naming a few streets after Israeli war heroes. Mail is seldom delivered there, and having no street names adds to the Arabs' perception that in Israeli society they are either invisible, nonexistent or branded terrorists."
con_2_1	Jerusalem was founded by King David so belongs to Israel	 Jerusalem was founded by King David so belongs to Israel King David founded Jerusalem in 1010 B.C.E, according to the Hebrew Bible. He was the second king of the united Kingdom of Israel. Because Jerusalem was founded by an Israeli, it belongs to Israel. 
con_2_2	Neither party has a better claim to Jerusalem; status quo is best.	Neither party has a better claim to Jerusalem; status quo is best. Neither party to the conflict has a superior historical claim to Jerusalem. A common situation in international disputes, the ideal response should be to settle with the status quo, as this is the most stable move. 
con_2_3	With three religious claims to Jerusalem, how would it be divided?	 With three religious claims to Jerusalem, how would it be divided? 
con_2_4	Israel has fought to unify Jerusalem; why now divide it?	 Israel has fought to unify Jerusalem; why now divide it? Chris Mitchell. "Tears for a Divided Jerusalem?". CBN News Jerusalem Bureau. 4 Jan. 2008 - "Despite any public warnings, the private negotiations continue for the November summit...In the midst of these plans, some see an irony of history...This year, Israel celebrated the 40th anniversary of the re-unification of Jerusalem...The battle 40 years ago during the 1967 Six Day War reunited a divided city between Jordan and Israel. And for the first time in more than 2,000 years, Israel controlled the city of Jerusalem...Some fear that what Israel won on the battlefield could be lost at the negotiating table."
con_2_5	Israel governs Palestinians in Jerusalem well and democratically	 Israel governs Palestinians in Jerusalem well and democratically Israel governs East Jerusalem as well as it can. It should be noted that it offers the opportunity for Palestinians to become representatives of their local communities, but that Palestinians reject this opportunity out of fear of being seen as sympathizing with the enemy. They shirk the opportunity to govern themselves and inflame tensions with Israel. They are, therefore, largely responsible for the poor state of East Jerusalem. Israel should not be held solely responsible. 
con_2_6	The idea that Jerusalem could be shared as opposed to divided or solely Israeli is not practical.	The idea that Jerusalem could be shared as opposed to divided or solely Israeli is not practical. If all Jerusalem becomes the capital of both Israel and Palestine, this would create all sorts of potential problems. For example, if a baby is born in a shared Jerusalem, will its civic nationality be Israeli or Palestinian? And if an act is committed in Jerusalem which one nation's government recognises as a crime but the other doesn't, who decides what should be done? Different countries sharing a disputed territory but not dividing it is very illogical, even more so if that territory is the capital of both. Imagine what would have happened if the UK, France,and the USA decided to share Berlin with the USSR instead of dividing it!
headline_3	International law: Should Jerusalem be divided, according to international law?
pro_3_1	Jerusalem was intended by the UN to be a joint capital	 Jerusalem was intended by the UN to be a joint capital The League of Nations and United Nations initially established Jerusalem as an "international" city. The intention was to hold the city as an international "trust" until the Palestinians could stand on their own feet, establish a state, and establish a joint capital with Israel in Jerusalem.  
pro_3_2	Countries do not recognize Jerusalem as Israeli capital.	Countries do not recognize Jerusalem as Israeli capital. Almost all countries keep their diplomatic missions in Tel-Aviv today and do not consider Jerusalem the official capital of Israel.[2]
con_3_1	1947 Arab invasion invalidated international status of Jerusalem	 1947 Arab invasion invalidated "international" status of Jerusalem "Jerusalem: Unified City, Divided City, or International City?". About.com. 4 Aug. 2000 - "the Arab non-acceptance of Resolution 181 and invasion of Israel immediately upon its declaration of statehood essentially reneged the resolution and the creation of an Arab state at the time."
headline_4	Israeli society: Would dividing Jerusalem devastate Israeli society?
pro_4_1	Dividing Jerusalem will not alienate Jews from their heritage	 Dividing Jerusalem will not alienate Jews from their heritage Dennis Ross writes in the book "the Missing Peace", that it is a myth: "that all of Jerusalem, including the exclusively Arab neighborhoods of Jerusalem, must remain Israeli lest the division of East Jerusalem rob Israel of its link to its Jewish heritage."[3]
con_4_1	Sharing Jerusalem is forbidden under Israeli law.	Sharing Jerusalem is forbidden under Israeli law. In 1980, Israel's parliament, the Knesset, passed the "Basic Law". This proclaimed, "Jerusalem, complete and united, is the capital of Israel." This makes it unlawful, under Israeli law, to now divide Jerusalem and share it as a joint capital with a Palestinian state.[4]
con_4_2	Jerusalem is too important to Jewish identity to be divided	 Jerusalem is too important to Jewish identity to be divided Ben Gurion explain in 1937, "for the Jews, the millions of the Jews who do not know the difference between the Sharon [or the Jezre'el] and the Valley [or the difference between Rehavia and the Old City] the name Jerusalem means everything."[5]
headline_5	Economics: Would dividing Jerusalem be economical?
pro_5_1	Splitting Jerusalem will establish needed peace for economic growth.	Splitting Jerusalem will establish needed peace for economic growth. Without peace, it is impossible for Jerusalem to thrive economically as it should. If splitting Jerusalem is the best way to establish peace, then it is also the best way to stimulate economic growth.  
con_5_1	A divided Jerusalem would be less viable economically.	A divided Jerusalem would be less viable economically. Dividing a city in two means cutting off commerce between the two sides. It means cutting markets in half, reducing the market of suppliers for consumers and consumers for suppliers by 50%. This is highly problematic for a city that aims to become an global center. 
