title	Wave power
question	What are the pros and cons of wave power?
headline_1	Global warming: Is wave power important in fighting global warming?
pro_1_1	Wave power emits no greenhouse gases into the atmosphere.	Wave power emits no greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. The most important contemporary environmental concern is that an energy source emits greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. Wave energy addresses this concern, emitting not greenhouse gases in the process of generating electricity. 
pro_1_2	Wave power provides clean renewable power.	Wave power provides clean renewable power. Wave power provides clean power with no emissions that is fully renewable. Waves will never stop crashing, and so there is no limit to the amount of clean-power that can be extracted from waves. This compared favorably to fossil fuels and other non-renewable sources of power. Wave power is also free in this sense.[1]
con_1_1	Focus on energy conservation before wave power	 Focus on energy conservation before wave power Fran Recht of the Pacific States Marine Fisheries Commission in 2007 - "I’m not prepared to take new risks unless we’re conserving and respecting the energy we already have."[2]
con_1_2	Producing and transporting wave power machines is energy-intensive.	Producing and transporting wave power machines is energy-intensive. It requires substantial energy to produce wave power generating systems, such as the Pelamis. The system is made from a significant quantity of metal and must be shipped out and installed in coastal areas. This requires substantial energy, much of which comes by burning fossil fuels. This means that constructing and transporting wave power systems can release a significant quantity of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. 
headline_2	Marine wildlife: Is wave power OK for marine wildlife?
pro_2_1	Marine life can avoid wave power systems/harm	 Marine life can avoid wave power systems/harm Tom Thorpe of UK-based Oxford Oceanics. - "Marine life forms are more intelligent than what people make of them and can easily avoid such devices. Wave energy devices [generally] will not affect migratory patterns. They can only have positive environmental effects when deployed away from ecologically sensitive areas. Greenpeace has campaigned strongly and effectively for wave energy, which shows their view of its environmental credentials."[3]
pro_2_2	Wave power generators will not be placed in sensitive areas	 Wave power generators will not be placed in sensitive areas. Philip D. Moeller, a member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and a supporter of wave and tidal energy projects, said to the New York Times in 2007 that the government was "not allowing these [wave power generators] to go into sensitive areas. We haven’t defined sensitive area, but the point is we’ll be cognizant of that."[4]
pro_2_3	Wave power will have a smaller impact than fossil fuel plants	 Wave power will have a smaller impact than fossil fuel plants. "Pros and cons of ocean wave energy". Energy Consumer's Edge - "It is noteworthy that even these environmental impacts are far less than those of most fossil fuel plants." 
pro_2_4	Wave generators provide beneficial surface for some sea life	 Wave generators provide beneficial surface for some sea life "Pros and cons of ocean wave energy". Energy Consumer's Edge - "Off shore ocean wave generators need anchors to hold them to the sea floor. These generators may actually be beneficial to sea life because of the subsurface structure they provide."
con_2_1	Wave power is a hazard to migrating fish and whales	 Wave power is a hazard to migrating fish and whales. Migrating fish and whales can potentially run into wave power generators. The violent bobbing up-and-down of these systems presents some risks.[5]  
con_2_2	Diffuse wave energy requires many wave generators; high impact	 Diffuse wave energy requires many wave generators; high impact "Pros and cons of ocean wave energy". Energy Consumer's Edge - "Because it is a diffuse energy source we can expect to see environmental impacts on par with those experienced by large power dams or wind turbines." 
con_2_3	Wave energy more about profits than environment	 Wave energy more about profits than environment William Yardley. "Efforts to Harvest Ocean’s Energy Open New Debate Front". New York Times. December 8, 2007 - "some environmentalists and fishermen worry that the recent rush for renewable energy is more about politics, big business and the next big thing than it is about clean energy. They warn that too little is known about what effect wave farms might have on migrating fish and whales."
con_2_4	Electro-magnetic energy from wave power threatens marine life	 Electro-magnetic energy from wave power threatens marine life. The transmission of electricity from wave power systems through cables to the shore has the risk of transmitting electro-magnetic energy into the water, harming animals.
con_2_5	Wave power systems can attract predatory fish, damaging ecosystems	 Wave power systems can attract predatory fish, damaging ecosystems. 
headline_3	Fisheries: Is wave power consistent fishing industry interests?
pro_3_1	Wave power equipment can be moved if there are problems	 Wave power equipment can be moved if there are problems William Yardley. "Efforts to Harvest Ocean’s Energy Open New Debate Front". New York Times. December 8, 2007 - "[A]ccording to our Environmental Science textbook, if problem occurs, equipment can be removed quickly (as opposed to dams)"[6]
con_3_1	Wave power generators obstruct and are a hazard to fishers	 Wave power generators obstruct and are a hazard to fishers. William Yardley. "Efforts to Harvest Ocean’s Energy Open New Debate Front". New York Times. December 8, 2007 - "'I don’t want it in my fishing grounds,' said Mr. Martinson, 40, who docks his 74-foot boat, Libra, here at Yaquina Bay, about 90 miles southwest of Portland. 'I don’t want to be worried about driving around someone else’s million-dollar buoy.'"
headline_4	Energy: Can wave power supply significant quantities of energy?
pro_4_1	Wave power is more consistent than other renewables	 Wave power is more consistent than other renewables. Many other sources of power, such as solar and tidal power, provide energy only at certain times of the day. Wave power, however, provides a much more consistent and reliable supply of energy. This means it supplies more energy and that its electricity-supply can be more easily integrity into the grid system.
pro_4_2	Wave power can contribute a significant amount of energy	 Wave power can contribute a significant amount of energy. Wave power has the potential to provide 5-10% of US energy supply, according to the New York Times.[7] 
pro_4_3	Waves pack potent energy compared to other renewables	 Waves pack potent energy compared to other renewables Ocean Power on the Rise". Celcias. - "A potentially highly efficient wave-to-electricity conversion ratio[...]The sheer force/density of water compared to wind equates to far fewer generators being required compared with wind turbines." 
con_4_1	Wave power is young, years behind other renewables	 Wave power is young, years behind other renewables "The coming wave". Economist. Jun 5th 2008 - "Alas, harnessing it has proved to be unexpectedly difficult. In recent years wind farms have sprouted on plains and hilltops, and solar panels have been sprinkled across rooftops and deserts. But where the technology of wind and solar power is established and steadily improving, that of wave power is still in its infancy. The world had to wait until October 2007 for the first commercial wave farm, consisting of three snakelike tubes undulating with the Atlantic swell off the coast of Portugal."
con_4_2	Wave power is too inconsistent	 Wave power is too inconsistent "Pros and cons of ocean wave energy". Energy Consumer's Edge - "Wave energy is intermittent and variable. Even in the most active wave areas, there are many days with little wave activity. On days that have good wave activity, wave levels can vary. As explained on the Pros and Cons of Wind Power  page, resolving intermittency problems to attain reliable energy output can double and even triple the cost of power."
headline_5	Economics: What are the economics pros and cons of wave power?
pro_5_1	Wave energy will become viable with greater economies of scales	 Wave energy will become viable with greater economies of scales. Hwee Hwee Tan. "Riding on the next wave of promise". Energy Current. 1 Mar. 2008 - "Because the industry is new, there are no economies of scale, which means that all units [of wave energy devices] must be individually produced at higher costs," Elefant said. The cost of wave energy will remain on the high side as compared to competing forms of renewables until enough projects are developed to reach economies of scale, according to Elefant."
pro_5_2	Wave power installations can reduce coastal erosion.	Wave power installations can reduce coastal erosion. Wave power absorbs some of the energy in waves, thus diminishing the energy of waves that reach the coast. This can help reduce coastal erosion.
pro_5_3	Wave power systems are cheap to maintain	 Wave power systems are cheap to maintain Ocean Power on the Rise". Celcias. -"Pros...Cheap to maintain" 
pro_5_4	Waves pack substantial energy; few wave generators are required	 Waves pack substantial energy; few wave generators are required Ocean Power on the Rise". Celcias. - "A potentially highly efficient wave-to-electricity conversion ratio[...]The sheer force/density of water compared to wind equates to far fewer generators being required compared with wind turbines." 
pro_5_5	If people can make money on wave energy, they should.	If people can make money on wave energy, they should. It is irrelevant whether wave energy can become a large-scale industry capable of competing with big oil, wind, or solar companies. If people think they can make money on wave energy, through any of the various methods that are available, then they should do so. 
pro_5_6	Wave power inspires ingenuity and innovation.	Wave power inspires ingenuity and innovation. Innovation has its own important benefits. Whenever someone begins thinking and innovating outside of the box, it is a good thing for economies and for the future of technology in society. In so far as wave technology achieves these things, it should be encouraged. 
con_5_1	Wave power systems have high initial capital costs	 Wave power systems have high initial capital costs Ocean Power on the Rise". Celcias. -"High initial startup costs". 
con_5_2	Wave power is only viable where conditions are right	 Wave power is only viable where conditions are right Ocean Power on the Rise". Celcias. - "Needs a suitable site, where waves are consistently strong". 
con_5_3	Wave power proposals will run up against permit regulations	 Wave power proposals will run up against permit regulations. There are many regulations surrounding the permits given to coastline projects. Wave energy projects risk running up against these regulations. 
con_5_4	Wave power will see resistance from coastal residents	 Wave power will see resistance from coastal residents "Pros and cons of ocean wave energy". Energy Consumer's Edge - "on shore ocean wave energy generators will occupy extended lengths of coastline. And most of the coastlines of the world that have significant wave activity are either highly desired residential areas, or they are pristine wilderness[...]It doesn’t take a genius to see that any proposal to line these shores with ocean wave energy generators will be met with stiff resistance."
con_5_5	Storms can damage and dislodge wave generators.	Storms can damage and dislodge wave generators. Repairing generators is a costly proposition, largely because it requires doing repairs at sea or under-water. In addition to the repairs, dislodged wave generators can present a hazard to boats and coastal areas, which creates the prospect of expensive lawsuits. 
con_5_6	Oceans corrode wave power systems, which is costly	 Oceans corrode wave power systems, which is costly. Ocean Power on the Rise". Celcias. - "Waves are not short on power. In fact, the sheer potency of the ocean is a serious issue for engineers. How do you build something that can withstand the constant wear and tear of the enormous weight of ocean surges? And, once you have that figured, add in extra fortification for stormy conditions, and top it off with protection against the incredibly corrosive effects of salt." 
con_5_7	Difficult to transfer wave energy back to land	 Difficult to transfer wave energy back to land Ocean Power on the Rise". Celcias. - "Difficulty to transfer energy back to land". 
headline_6	Aesthetics: Does wave power preserve environmental beauty?
pro_6_1	Under-water wave power systems avoid aesthetic concerns.	Under-water wave power systems avoid aesthetic concerns. Waves transmit energy at the surface as well as underwater. Therefore, systems are being designed that gather wave energy underwater, avoiding any aesthetic concerns all together; the wave turbines cannot be seen from shore.[8]
con_6_1	Wave generators degrade the pristine beauty of the environment	 Wave generators degrade the pristine beauty of the environment. Snake-like wave generators scattered across the surface of the ocean near the coasts are an eye-soar. They degrade the pristine beauty of the environment in a very similar way as wind generators. 
con_6_2	Under-water wave power is too expensive to solve aesthetics.	Under-water wave power is too expensive to solve aesthetics. The difficulty of under-water wave power is that it generally requires being installed further out to see, where water is deeper. This requires that transmission lines go farther out to sea, which is more expensive. This means that under-water wave power is not a very economically viable solution to the aesthetic issues surrounding wave power. 
headline_7	Surfers: Is wave power a problem for surfers?
pro_7_1	Wave power need not be installed where it damages surfing.	Wave power need not be installed where it damages surfing. Wave power can be a problem in certain areas. Certainly, if it has the potential to diminish recreational surfing, and surfers protest loudly against it, wave power systems should probably not be installed. Wave power simply needs to be assessed on a case-by-case basis, in this regard.
con_7_1	Wave power diminishes wave quality for surfers	 Wave power diminishes wave quality for surfers "Surfers protest British wave power plan". International Herald Tribune. 5 Apr. 2007 - "A political fight is looming over one of the first British wave power projects, the Wave Hub, which surfers fear will drain energy from the waves they ride along the Atlantic coast. Initial reports suggest that wave heights could be cut by up to 11 percent in the most affected area, Chapelporth, a renowned surfing beach backed by rugged granite cliffs and the ruins of discarded tin mines. 'We will not stand by and not fight this,' said Ben Farwagi of the London Surf Club, a regular visitor to the region. 'Imagine the uproar if golf courses were required to close two holes each in order to accommodate wind farms,' Baxendale said." 
