title	Vehicle fuel economy standards
question	Are vehicle fuel economy standards a good strategy in fighting global warming?
headline_1	Emissions: Do fuel economy standards help reduce emissions, combat global warming?
pro_1_1	Fuel economy standards reduce emissions, fight global warming	 Fuel economy standards reduce emissions, fight global warming The most basic function of fuel economy standards is that they help the average car burn less gasoline, so emit less C02 into the atmosphere. The net effect is a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere, which lowers the net human contribution to global warming.
pro_1_2	Higher fuel economy standards do not increase driving	 Higher fuel economy standards do not increase driving "Repealing CAFE Standards Would Be…Stupid". Think Youth. 23 Sept. 2008 - "Some have argued that to raise CAFE standards means that people will only drive more. The argument is as stupid is one that says to make our money easier to carry means we will spend more. People aren’t moving their job because their car will get more gas to the gallon."
pro_1_3	CAFE standards have strong history of reducing US emissions	 CAFE standards have strong history of reducing US emissions The Union of Concerned Scientists said in 2008 about CAFE standards, "No energy legislation has ever done more for America’s security by saving oil and curbing global warming pollution."[1]
con_1_1	Markets efficiently reduce emissions; fuel standards are unnecessary	 Markets efficiently reduce emissions; fuel standards are unnecessary Jerry Taylor and Peter Van Doren. "Don't Raise CAFE Standards". CATO. 2 Aug. 2007 - "Congress has no business dictating automotive fuel efficiency. That's a job for consumers, not vote-hustling politicians. There are no problems for CAFE standards to solve. Hence, they shouldn't be tightened; they should be repealed."
con_1_2	Gas prices pressure fuel efficiency; standards are unnecessary	 Gas prices pressure fuel efficiency; standards are unnecessary Gattuso, James L. ; Jeffreys, Kent "The Mounting Dangers of the CAFE Mileage Standards". Heritage Foundation. 13 Oct. 1988 - "Although CAFE was first proposed to foster more fuel efficient cars, the average fuel ef ficiency.of cars driven in the U.S. actually began to increase even before standards were enacted. The reason was simple. With gasoline prices rising from 36 cents per gallon in 1972 to 53 cents per gallon in 1974, consumers began to demand more efficient automobiles." 
con_1_3	Fuel economy standards increase driving so do not decrease emissions	 Fuel economy standards increase driving so do not decrease emissions Jerry Taylor and Peter Van Doren. "Don't Raise CAFE Standards". CATO. 2 Aug. 2007 - "Increasing CAFE standards will not decrease the amount of pollution coming from the U.S. auto fleet. That's because we regulate emissions per mile traveled, not per gallon of gasoline burned. Improvements in fuel efficiency reduce the cost of driving and thus increase vehicle miles traveled."
con_1_4	Fuel economy standards do not directly reduce emissions	Fuel economy standards do not directly reduce emissions.
headline_2	Environment: What are the other environmental pros and cons?
pro_2_1	Fuel economy standards reduce emissions, improve air quality.	Fuel economy standards reduce emissions, improve air quality. By reducing emissions, it is important to consider how fuel economy standards will improve air quality and public health, particularly in metropolitan areas.
con_2_1	Fuel economy standards only shift environmental impacts	 Fuel economy standards only shift environmental impacts A 1992 National Research Council (NRC) report concluded, "Improvements in vehicle fuel economy will have indirect environmental impacts. For example, replacing the cast iron and steel components of vehicles with lighter weight materials (e.g., aluminum, plastics, or composites) may reduce fuel consumption but would generate a different set of environmental impacts, as well as result in different kinds of indirect energy consumption."[2] 
con_2_2	Car-makers adjust to fuel economy costs by lowering other standards	 Car-makers adjust to fuel economy costs by lowering other standards Jerry Taylor and Peter Van Doren. "Don't Raise CAFE Standards". CATO. 2 Aug. 2007 - "automakers have an incentive to offset the costs associated with improving fuel efficiency by spending less complying with federal pollution standards with which they currently over-comply."
headline_3	Economics: What are the economic pros and cons of fuel economy standards?
pro_3_1	Fuel economy standards do not increase the cost of making cars	 Fuel economy standards do not increase the cost of making cars Felix Salmon. "GM's Weak Arguments Against Increased Fuel Economy Market Movers." Portfolio. 10 Sep. 2007 - "I, for one, am far from convinced that higher CAFE standards would increase the costs of making a car. In fact, insofar as they encouraged auto makers to make smaller cars and fewer SUVs, higher CAFE standards might even decrease the costs of making a car. Remember that cheaper cars, as a rule, are actually more fuel-efficient, not less."
pro_3_2	Fuel economy standards reduce money spent by drivers on gas.	Fuel economy standards reduce money spent by drivers on gas. Fuel economy standards help reduce the amount of gasoline consumers use in traveling where they want to go. This means that they spend less on gasoline and have more money to spend on other things.
pro_3_3	Gas savings make-up for any higher initial costs of vehicles	 Gas savings make-up for any higher initial costs of vehicles "Possible To Reduce Emissions By 30 Percent By 2025, Model Shows". ScienceDaily. 29 July 2008) - "For instance, the savings from buying a more fuel-efficient vehicle can offset the added cost of technology in less than a year by using technologies that are already available and manufacturing vehicles that achieve the CAFE standards and even go beyond them."
pro_3_4	Fuel economy standards help car companies stay competitive	 Fuel economy standards help car companies stay competitive Thomas Friedman. "Et Tu, Toyota?". New York Times. 3 Oct. 2007 - "Michigan lawmakers year after year shielding Detroit from pressure to innovate on higher mileage standards, even though Detroit’s failure to sell more energy-efficient vehicles has clearly contributed to its brush with bankruptcy, its loss of market share to Toyota and Honda — whose fleets beat all U.S. automakers in fuel economy in 2007 — and its loss of jobs. G.M. today has 73,000 working U.A.W. members, compared with 225,000 a decade ago. Last year, Toyota overtook G.M. as the world’s biggest automaker."
pro_3_5	Japan/Europe show high fuel economy standards achievable	 Japan/Europe show high fuel economy standards achievable Thomas Friedman. "Et Tu, Toyota?". New York Times. 3 Oct. 2007 - "Here are the facts: Thanks to the Michigan delegation, U.S. mileage standards for passenger car fleets have been frozen at 27.5 miles per gallon since 1985. Light trucks are even worse[...]Japan and Europe already have much better mileage standards for their auto fleets than the U.S. They both have many vehicles that could meet the U.S. goal for 2020 today, and they are committed to increasing their fleet standards toward 40 m.p.g. and above in the coming decade." 
pro_3_6	Fuel economy standards foster innovation and jobs	 Fuel economy standards foster innovation and jobs Fuel economy standards require regulatory agencies, which can fill jobs. In addition, creating more fuel-efficient vehicles requires innovation by auto-makers, which stimulates action and jobs in the industry. 
pro_3_7	Opposition to fuel economy standards driven by special interests	 Opposition to fuel economy standards driven by special interests Thomas Friedman. "Et Tu, Toyota?". New York Times. 3 Oct. 2007 - "Michigan lawmakers year after year shielding Detroit from pressure to innovate on higher mileage standards".
con_3_1	Fuel economy standards violate consumer choice	 Fuel economy standards violate consumer choice NADA chairwoman Annette Sykora said in February 2008, "The consumer will decide what works and what doesn't. It's that simple. You can't wave a government wand and make consumers buy a particular type of vehicle. This is not Europe."[3]
con_3_2	Fuel economy standards increase car manufacturing costs and prices	 Fuel economy standards increase car manufacturing costs and prices Mike Allen. "Why the New 35-MPG Fuel Economy Standard Is a Bad Idea". Popular Mechanics. 7 Dec. 2007 - "The car manufacturers are partly right: It’ll cost lots of money to change over their product mix from big cars to more fuel-efficient models, to use lighter-weight materials and to develop new technology."
con_3_3	Fuel standards impair individuals needing high-powered trucks	 Fuel standards impair individuals needing high-powered trucks Eric Peters. "No to New Fuel Economy Standards: Consumer Choice, Not Congress, Should Drive Detroit's Decisionmaking". National Policy Analysis. June 2007 - "Of course, it's easy to wag a finger at 'wasteful' pick-ups and SUVs from the halls of Congress -- and the editorial pages of big city newspapers.  But the fact is many people (farmers, people with trailers to pull or large families to haul, contractors, etc.) simply need these kinds of vehicles -- and nothing else will do.  You can't tow 9,000 pounds with a Camry.  Sometimes, miles-per-gallon is not the sole reason for buying a vehicle." 
con_3_4	Fuel economy standards unfairly punish car manufacturers	 Fuel economy standards unfairly punish car manufacturers Dan Carney. "Why U.S. fuel-economy standards don't work". MSNBC. 4 Oct. 2007 - "Recognizing that burning less fuel is beneficial for a multitude of reasons, those countries employ an array of policies designed to encourage frugality. Some countries have a higher sales tax on cars with bigger engines. The fuel itself is taxed, making its purchase sting enough that consumers are willing to sacrifice some interior space. The tax on diesel fuel is lower, encouraging sales of more fuel-efficient diesel-powered models. Friedman seeks to be seen as punishing “Detroit” rather than the little guy. And the little guy is a factor. People with lower income spend a proportionally higher amount of their money on gas, so liberals are reluctant to tax them directly."
con_3_5	Fuel economy standards are a solution in search of a problem	 Fuel economy standards are a solution in search of a problem Dr. Robert W. Crandall, Barry Felrice, Sam Kazman, and Dr. W. David Montgomery. "Fuel Economy Standards: Do they Work? Do they Kill?". Heritage Foundation. 8 Mar. 2002 - "CAFE is a solution in search of a problem. Is the problem global warming? Is it energy security? Is it traffic congestion and air pollution? Or is it simply the envy of some people who can't afford to buy large SUVs? I think that I can say confidently that except for, perhaps, a subset of that last problem, CAFE is not the right solution to whatever the problem advocated is."
headline_4	Energy independence: Do fuel economy standards increase energy independence?
pro_4_1	Fuel economy standards increase energy independence and security	 Fuel economy standards increase energy independence and security "Repealing CAFE Standards Would Be…Stupid". Think Youth. 23 Sept. 2008 - "With the economy reeling from the effects of Wall Street some fools have been attacking what little progress America has made to move the country into a new future and better economic avenues. One of those successes have been stronger CAFE standards and moving America off of dependence on the international oil industry that is draining the economy of $700 billion dollars." 
pro_4_2	Efficiency standards a good alternative to more oil drilling	 Efficiency standards a good alternative to more oil drilling "The Way to Energy Independence (Hint: It Isn’t Drilling)". New York Times Editorial Board. 18 Aug. 2008 - "Wouldn’t it be great if we could satisfy our national appetite for oil by reducing consumption instead of increasing production — and protect the environment in the bargain?[...]We can — not by punching holes in the ground but simply by getting the numbers right on a piece of paper[...]Here’s how[...]Last December, Congress approved and President Bush signed a landmark energy bill that, among other things, upgraded the nation’s fuel economy standards for the first time in three decades[...]It requires automakers to achieve a fleetwide average for cars and light trucks of at least 35 miles per gallon by 2020. That would be a 40 percent increase over today’s levels, and it could save as much as 1.1 million barrels of oil a day." 
con_4_1	Fuel economy standards don't help energy independence.	Fuel economy standards don't help energy independence. Fuel economy standards do not decrease fuel consumption because people simply drive more when their cars are more efficient and driving is less expensive. (see full argument above) This means that fuel economy standards will not help reduce the amount of oil consumed, nor the amount of oil imported from abroad, so it will not strengthen energy independence.  
headline_5	Safety: Are safety concerns involved with increasing fuel economy standards?
pro_5_1	Fuel economy standards do not put drivers at greater risk	 Fuel economy standards do not put drivers at greater risk Jen Dunnaway. "Latest Loony Argument Against CAFE Standards: High-MPG Cars Kill People". Car Domain Blog. 26 Mar. 2008 - "Republican lobbyist [Grover Norquist] claimed that requiring the automakers to eke up their mpg ratings was tantamount to murdering consumers—by forcing them into smaller cars, putting them at greater risk during collisions. His argument is based on one 2002 study that explored the effects of the diminishing body size of cars in the 70's. In addition to simplistically generalizing the results of that report to the new generation of compact cars, his position also ignores a lot of key realities about crashes, including the illusion of safety experienced by drivers of big vehicles, their greater likelihood of single-vehicle accidents and rollovers, and the tendency of large rides to transfer more energy to the bodies of occupants during a crash, resulting in worse injuries."
con_5_1	Vehicle fuel economy standards can increase vehicle deaths	 Vehicle fuel economy standards can increase vehicle deaths Charli E. Coon, J.D. "Why the Government's CAFE Standards for Fuel Efficiency Should Be Repealed, not Increased". Heritage Foundation. 11 July 2001 - "The evidence is overwhelming that CAFE standards result in more highway deaths. A 1999 USA TODAY analysis of crash data and estimates from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety found that, in the years since CAFE standards were mandated under the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975, about 46,000 people have died in crashes that they would have survived if they had been traveling in bigger, heavier cars. 5 This translates into 7,700 deaths for every mile per gallon gained by the standards."
headline_6	Vs. gas tax: Are fuel economy standards superior to a gas tax?
pro_6_1	Fuel economy standards better politically than gas taxes	 Fuel economy standards better politically than gas taxes Ezra Klein. "Gas Tax vs. Cafe Standards". The American Prospect. 29 Aug 2005 - "Gas taxes, unlike CAFE increases, are basically impossible to pass.  Particularly now.  It's one thing to sneak in a gas tax when fuel is cheap, but convincing Americans of it when they're demanding a drop in gas prices is not, I think, a sound recipe for political survival.  It just won't happen. On the other hand, 93% of Americans support an increase in CAFE standards.  That doesn't make it easy -- the auto industry is a powerful lobby.  But they're going to fight a gas tax too, so I'd rather our politicians be battling back with an overwhelmingly popular proposal rather than running into industry opposition while carrying a bill Americans will stone them for passing." 
con_6_1	Gas taxes reduce miles driven better than fuel economy standards	 Gas taxes reduce miles driven better than fuel economy standards Ian Parry. "Should Automobile Fuel Economy Standards Be Increased?". Resources for the Future. 17 Sept. 2007 - "Another policy option is to raise fuel taxes, which unlike CAFE, would reduce congestion and other highway externalities, through reducing vehicle miles traveled. While the case for higher fuel taxes is, in my view, more clear-cut, this option is still highly controversial."
