title	Algae biofuel
question	What are the pros and cons of algae biofuel?
headline_1	Emissions: Is algae biofuel good for combating global warming?
pro_1_1	Algae biofuel is carbon neutral; only emits C02 that it absorbs.	Algae biofuel is carbon neutral; only emits C02 that it absorbs. Growing algae absorbs C02 in the process of photosynthesis. It is a carbon sink. This is why, when algae biofuels are burned and emit some C02, the emission balance is C02 neutral; it emits only C02 it previously absorbed, adding no new C02 into the atmosphere. Because it is carbon neutral in this way, it is a renewable energy source that can be produced and burned for energy sustainably. 
pro_1_2	Algae reproduces quickly, maximizing biofuel yields	 Algae reproduces quickly, maximizing biofuel yields "Algae Biofuels Of The Future". Alternative Energy. 10 Sept. 2008 - "Another good thing about algae is they multiply very fast. They can double their weight many times in a single day." 
pro_1_3	Algae biofuel can scale to replace oil	 Algae biofuel can scale to replace oil Nick Hodge. "Biodiesel Bliss - The Second Coming". Energy and Capital. 2 Apr. 2007 - "Research like that being done at the Colorado State University’s (CSU) Engines and Energy Conservation Laboratory and the University of New Hampshire (UNH), suggests that algae could supply enough fuel to meet all of America’s transportation needs in the form of biodiesel."
con_1_1	Producing algae biofuel requires too much energy	 Producing algae biofuel requires too much energy "Leave the algae alone". Low-tech Magazine. 4 Apr. 2008 - "There are very detailed figures on the amount of energy that will come out of the process, yet it is very hard to find any information on the energy and resources needed to make this energy output possible"
con_1_2	Energy-intensive production of algae biofuel emits greenhouse gases	 Energy-intensive production of algae biofuel emits greenhouse gases Elisabeth Rosenthal. "Biofuels Deemed a Greenhouse Threat". NY Times. 8 Feb. 2008 - "Almost all biofuels used today cause more greenhouse gas emissions than conventional fuels if the full emissions costs of producing these "green" fuels are taken into account...".
con_1_3	Algae biofuel distracts from better ways of reducing emissions	 Algae biofuel distracts from better ways of reducing emissions Douglas Parr, chief scientific advisor for Greenpeace UK. - "our main worry is that it comes as a distraction from the fact that aviation has got to do plenty of things aside from algae research in order to become truly sustainable."[1]
con_1_4	Indusrial algae depends on dense C02 from coal	 Indusrial algae depends on dense C02 from coal "Algae biofuel mania". Stockhouse. 11 June 2008 - "Algae can obtain carbon from atmospheric carbon dioxide, but the amounts present are insufficient to promote rapid growth. That requires something like smokestack effluents containing more than 10% CO2, and in fact some of the earliest attempts to grow algae as a fuel source were predicated upon the development of pervasive industrial carbon dioxide capture. That's not happening, and unless it does, real mass production of algal biofuel is scarcely possible." 
headline_2	Economics: Is algae biofuel economically viable?
pro_2_1	Algae biofuel is commercially viable on an industrial scale	 Algae biofuel is commercially viable on an industrial scale Carli Ghelfi. "Turning algae into ethanol, and gold". 11 June 2008 - "Naples, Fla.-based Algenol Biofuels says it has found a way to inexpensively bring third-generation biofuels to industrial scale...And, unlike most algal biofuel companies, it's apparently got a licensing deal for an $850 million project to show for it...The company believes its seawater-based process can generate up to a billion gallons of algal ethanol per year from a facility in Mexico." 
pro_2_2	Algae biofuel can become price competitive with oil	 Algae biofuel can become price competitive with oil Jennifer Holmgren, director of the renewable fuels unit of UOP LLC, an energy subsidiary of Honeywell International Inc said, "If you can get algae oils down below $2 a gallon, then you'll be where you need to be. And there's a lot of people who think you can."[2] 
pro_2_3	There are no soil requirements for algae biofuel.	There are no soil requirements for algae biofuel. Biofuels that are created from land-plants all have specific soil-quality requirements. If soil in an area does not meet the specific nutrient requirements of a biofuel plant-type, that plant cannot be built and used to produce the biofuel in the land-area. Algae, because it grows in water (of almost any kind and quality), is not limited by soil-quality. 
pro_2_4	Biproducts of algae biofuels are useful fertilizaers	 Biproducts of algae biofuels are useful fertilizaers Nick Hodge. "Biodiesel Bliss - The Second Coming". Energy and Capital. 2 Apr. 2007 - "fertilizer for other food crops can be produced by using the leftover nutrients that aren’t used to make the biofuel...after the necessary oils have been extracted from the algae, we use the byproducts (phosphorus and nitrogen) as fertilizer for the food crops that feed the nation--all while extracting C02 from the air."
pro_2_5	Algae can be produced locally for food and fuel	 Algae can be produced locally for food and fuel "Algae: Not Only The Best Biofuel By Far...". Ecoversity - "But algae-culture holds the further promise of the potential of small-scale localized systems for food production as well as fuel production. There's no quicker way to produce food from sunlight, and the time may soon be coming to many parts of the world where food for humans becomes more a more urgent concern than the production of fuel."
pro_2_6	Algae biofuel does not damage food prices	 Algae biofuel does not damage food prices Sapphire Energy, a algae biofuel start-up says, "Critically important, there is no ‘food vs. fuel’ tradeoff. The process is not dependent on crops or valuable farmland. It is highly water efficient, delivering 10 to 100 times more energy per acre than cropland biofuels."[3]
pro_2_7	Algae biofuel industry growing quickly with bright future	 Algae biofuel industry growing quickly with bright future "Oil from algae? Scientists seek green gold". MSNBC. 29 Nov. 2007 - "...The momentum behind algae has grown tremendously since [last year]. New companies, new methods, and a changing landscape indicate that biofuel from algae is poised to play a larger role..." 
con_2_1	Producing algae biofuel is relatively expensive	 Producing algae biofuel is relatively expensive The cost of various algae species is typically between US$5–10 per kg dry weight. This is relative expensive, and not really commercially viable. 
con_2_2	Hi-tech algae biofuel plants require too much energy/money	 Hi-tech algae biofuel plants require too much energy/money "Leave the algae alone". Low-tech Magazine. 4 Apr. 2008 - "you have to build an array of structures [in algae biofuel bioreactors]: the glass or polycarbonate containers themselves, the metal frames, the greenhouses. The production of all this equipment might consume less energy (and money) per square meter than the production of solar panels, but you need much more of it because algae are less efficient than solar plants. Moreover, in closed bioreactors, CO2 has to be added artificially. This is done by bubbling air through the water by means of gas pumps, a process that needs energy. Furthermore, the containers have to be emptied and cleaned regularly, they have to be sterilized, the water has to be kept at a certain temperature, and minerals have to be added continuously (because also here, just as with cellulosic ethanol, "waste" materials are being removed). All these processes demand extra energy."
con_2_3	Algae biofuel start-ups exaggerate estimates to attract capital	 Algae biofuel start-ups exaggerate estimates to attract capital "Leave the algae alone". Low-tech Magazine. 4 Apr. 2008 - "It could be that these businesses are greatly overestimating their energy gains in order to attract capital. One of the few critics of algal fuel, Krassen Dimitrov, calculated that the figures of GreenFuel Technologies are defying the laws of physics. The company says that he is wrong, but his calculations surely look more convincing than the virtually non-existant information on their website."
con_2_4	Algae fuel ponds must be expensively covered	 Algae fuel ponds must be expensively covered "Three Big Problems with Algae". Oilgae. 23 Oct. 2006 - "2. Random natural algae tend to start taking over from artificially seeded algae fairly rapidly unless the pond is covered, and covering ponds costs money."
con_2_5	Algae pools can become contaminated and less efficient	 Algae pools can become contaminated and less efficient "Leave the algae alone". Low-tech Magazine. 4 Apr. 2008 - "low-tech methods (comparable to growing corn, soy or palm trees to make ethanol or biodiesel) are being left behind for more efficient ones, using closed glass or polycarbonate bioreactors and an array of high-tech equipment to keep the algae in optimal conditions. Even though some companies still prefer open ponds (like the PetroSun plant that started production last week), this method has serious drawbacks. The main problem is contamination by other kinds of algae and organisms, which can replace the energy producing algae in no time."
con_2_6	Industrial algae biofuel requires too many nutrients	 Industrial algae biofuel requires too many nutrients "Algae biofuel mania". Stockhouse. 11 June 2008 - "I might point out that some of the more vociferous algae pimps are suggesting that algae need merely be introduced into a properly designed, water filled bioreactor and the organisms will multiply until the unit is packed to overflowing with tons upon tons of green biomass, all in the space of days. This is patent nonsense. Algae can grow quickly, but only in the presence of sufficient nutrients. Just like any other organism, algae require carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus, and various other minerals."
headline_3	Land-use: Does algae biofuel take up too much land?
pro_3_1	Algae yields much more biofuel per acre than other fuels	 Algae yields much more biofuel per acre than other fuels Compared with second generation biofuels, algae are high-yield high-cost (30 times more energy per acre than terrestrial crops) feedstocks to produce biofuels. Since the whole organism uses sunlight to produce lipids, or oil, algae can produce more oil in an area the size of a two-car garage than an entire football field of soybeans.
pro_3_2	Algae photo-bioreactors require very little land	 Algae photo-bioreactors require very little land "Algae: Not Only The Best Biofuel By Far...". Ecoversity - "For the algae-culture projects which use large growing ponds, the potential biodiesel production per acre is 30 to 100 times greater than obtainable with corn, soy and palm oil. However the most efficient systems, called photo-bioreactors, stack clear tubes of water with algae in the sun, requiring very little acreage for significant production. This is the system we are demonstrating at Ecoversity."
con_3_1	Algae biofuel requires substantial land (expensive)	 Algae biofuel requires substantial land (expensive) "Leave the algae alone". Low-tech Magazine. 4 Apr. 2008 - "Ponds also need a lot of space, because sunlight only penetrates the upper layers of a water body. It's the surface of the pond that counts, not the depth."
con_3_2	Algae biofuel requires too much land, harming the environment	 Algae biofuel requires too much land, harming the environment "Leave the algae alone". Low-tech Magazine. 4 Apr. 2008 - "Ponds also need a lot of space, because sunlight only penetrates the upper layers of a water body. It's the surface of the pond that counts, not the depth."
headline_4	Ecosystems: Is algae biofuel generally good for ecosystems?
pro_4_1	Algae biofuel is biodegradable.	Algae biofuel is biodegradable. One advantage of many biofuels over most other fuel types is that they are biodegradable, and so relatively harmless to the environment if spilled.
pro_4_2	Algae biofuel is a renewable resource.	Algae biofuel is a renewable resource. Glen Kertz, president and CEO of Valcent Products, told CNN while conducting a tour of his algae greenhouse on the outskirts of El Paso - "Algae is the ultimate in renewable energy."
con_4_1	Algae biofuel has to be created from scratch	 Algae biofuel has to be created from scratch "The pros and cons of biofuels. Algal biofuel" CNN Money, Fortune. - "Minuses: Unlike cellulosic ethanol, the biomass for making a lot of fuel from algae doesn't yet exist; it has to be grown from scratch." 
headline_5	Water-use: Does algae biofuel use too much water?
pro_5_1	Algal fuels do not impact fresh water resources.	Algal fuels do not impact fresh water resources. Algae can be grown in the ocean, freshwater, and wastewater and sewage. There is really no limit to the types of water in which algae can survive and thrive, and so where it can be produced into biofuel.
pro_5_2	Algae biofuel can grow in salt water, freshwater or contaminated water.	Algae biofuel can grow in salt water, freshwater or contaminated water. There is no limit to the kinds of water where algae can be grown and used in producing biofuel. This contrasts sharply with many crops and fuels where much more specific location factors are at play. That algae biofuel can be produced in more places gives it an sot competitive edge over other fuels. 
pro_5_3	Human waste and sewage can be used to grow algae biofuel	 Human waste and sewage can be used to grow algae biofuel Nick Hodge. "Biodiesel Bliss - The Second Coming". Energy and Capital. 2 Apr. 2007 - "It is possible to use human sewage and wastewater from agricultural endeavors to enhance the growth of algae...In fact, when done right, algae can double and even triple overnight with the addition of these fertilizers...Compare that to the five-month growing season for soy or canola!"
con_5_1	Algae biofuel requires substantial quantities of water	 Algae biofuel requires substantial quantities of water Algae requires pools of standing water - not just water in the soil - to grow. It, therefore, requires substantial quantities of water. It take a significant quantity of energy to get that water to algae biofuel farms. It also diverts water from other important resources, such as irrigation for food farms and for direct human consumption. "Leave the algae alone". Low-tech Magazine. 4 Apr. 2008 - "Algae need a lot of sunshine and huge amounts of water - how do you get seawater to the desert?"
con_5_2	Lining ponds to meet groundwater regulations is expensive	 Lining ponds to meet groundwater regulations is expensive "Three Big Problems with Algae". Oilgae. 23 Oct. 2006 - "3. Ponds often have to be lined to meet groundwater regulatory requirements, which adds quite a bit to costs."
headline_6	Clean coal: Is the use of algae to clean coal a good idea?
pro_6_1	Algae can filter C02 from coal and be used for biofuel	 Algae can filter C02 from coal and be used for biofuel Power plants that emit large quantities of C02 can be fitted with algae biofuel systems, in which waste C02 is used by algae in the process of photosynthesis, creating as a result a useful biofuel. Lisa Colosi, a professor of civil and environmental engineering at the University of Virginia, supports this notion, arguing, "the main principle of industrial ecology is to try and use our waste products to produce something of value."[4]
con_6_1	Using algae to filter coal then burning it emits captured C02	 Using algae to filter coal then burning it emits captured C02 "Leave the algae alone". Low-tech Magazine. 4 Apr. 2008 - "Algal fuel can even be considered a worse idea than "clean" coal. In the "clean" coal strategy, at least the CO2 is captured with the intention to store it underground. In the case of algae, the CO2 is captured only with the intention to release in the air some time later, by a car engine." 
con_6_2	Algae from coal ties the biofuel to fossil fuels	 Algae from coal ties the biofuel to fossil fuels "Leave the algae alone". Low-tech Magazine. 4 Apr. 2008 - "capturing CO2 from power plants ties algal fuel production to fossil fuels. If we switch to solar energy, where will the algal fuel producers get their CO2 from?"
con_6_3	Using algae to filter coal emissions is inefficient/costly	 Using algae to filter coal emissions is inefficient/costly 
headline_7	Vs. solar: Is algae biofuel superior to solar power?
pro_7_1	Algae biofuel is more practical than solar power	 Algae biofuel is more practical than solar power "Algae Biofuel Becoming a Reality?". EcoSherpa. - "It’s a big deal because algae don’t just create energy from the sun…they create energy from the sun more effectively than anything else save photovoltaic panels. And, as you may have guessed, they’re a heck of a lot cheaper than photovoltaic panels." 
con_7_1	Solar power is greener than algae biofuel	 Solar power is greener than algae biofuel "Leave the algae alone". Low-tech Magazine. 4 Apr. 2008 - "The water issue is not the only 'detail' that threatens the energy efficiency of algal fuel. Compared to other plants, the photosynthetic efficiency of algae is high – almost 3 times that of sugar cane for instance. Compared to solar energy, however, the energy efficiency of algae is very low – around 1 percent, while solar panels have an efficiency of at least 10 percent, and solar thermal gets 20 percent and more. So why would we choose algae over solar energy?" 
headline_8	Vs. other biofuels: Is algae biofuel superior to other biofuels?
pro_8_1	Algae biofuel requires less land; good for the environment	 Algae biofuel requires less land; good for the environment The United States Department of Energy estimates that if algae fuel replaced all the petroleum fuel in the United States, it would require 15,000 square miles (40,000 square kilometers), which is a few thousand square miles larger than Maryland, or 1.3 Belgiums. This is less than 1/7th the area of corn harvested in the United States in 2000.
pro_8_2	Algae does not compete with food resources like other biofuels	 Algae does not compete with food resources like other biofuels 
pro_8_3	Algae requires less fresh water than other biofuel crops	 Algae requires less fresh water than other biofuel crops 
pro_8_4	Algae does not require fresh water like other biofuel crops.	Algae does not require fresh water like other biofuel crops. 
con_8_1	Algae biofuel will fail like other biofuels	 Algae biofuel will fail like other biofuels "Leave the algae alone". Low-tech Magazine. 4 Apr. 2008 - "While the first generation of biofuels is wreaking havoc on the environment and the food markets, the second generation is getting ready to make things only worse. Behind the scenes, scientists are already working on the third generation, whatever that may be. In five or ten years time, when it becomes clear that algal fuel is devouring our water and energy resources and cellulosic ethanol is mining our agricultural soils, we will be promised that the third generation will again solve all the problems of the previous generation."
