title	Kyoto Protocol
question	Is the Kyoto Protocol a good treaty to combat global warming? Is it a model for future treaties?
headline_1	Emissions: Does Kyoto effectively help cut emissions and combat global warming?
pro_1_1	Fighting climate change means cutting emissions with Kyoto Protocol	 Fighting climate change means cutting emissions with Kyoto Protocol Fighting global warming requires that countries move from a path of higher and higher greenhouse gas emissions each year to decreasing their greenhouse gas emissions. The Kyoto Protocol sets in motion this process, so is an essential step in the fight against global warming. As of January 2008, and running through 2012, countries will have to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by a collective average of 5% below their 1990 levels. This is a significant reversal.
pro_1_2	The Kyoto Protocol's target cuts in emissions are achievable	 The Kyoto Protocol's target cuts in emissions are achievable Stephen Leahy. "CLIMATE CHANGE: Kyoto on Track, Despite Some Slackers". Inter Press Service. November 21, 2007 - BROOKLIN, Canada, Nov 21 (IPS) - Total greenhouse gas emissions of 40 industrialised countries rose to a near all-time high in 2005, but the Kyoto Protocol will still exceed its reduction targets, a United Nations agency said two weeks before political leaders meet in Bali, Indonesia to begin negotiations on a new and more aggressive treaty to battle climate change."
pro_1_3	Kyoto Protocol initiates cooperation on climate	 Kyoto Protocol initiates cooperation on climate Stanford University climate scientist Stephen H. Schneider said in support of Kyoto when it was initiated in 2005, "You're going to need two generations of cooperative effort...to get ourselves off the fat carbon diet we're on."[4] The Kyoto Protocol, Schneider indicated, provided a good kick-start to this cooperative effort in fighting global warming.
pro_1_4	General statements of support for the Kyoto Protocol	 General statements of support for the Kyoto Protocol Reijo Kemppinen, a spokesman for the European Commission, said about Russia's ratification of Kyoto in September of 2004. - "This is a very welcome event. This will increase awareness of the fact that the Kyoto protocol is extremely useful and the more countries that join, the more influence it will have. We hope the U.S. will reconsider."[5]
con_1_1	Kyoto makes insufficient emission cuts to fight global warming	 Kyoto makes insufficient emission cuts to fight global warming Leslie Evans. "Kyoto Protocol Said to Harm Effort to Stop Global Warming--But There Is Something Better". UCLA International Institute. 25 May 2007 - "1. It is entirely insufficient. Most scientists say we need a 50% reduction of current levels by 2050 to stabilize world climate. But human emissions of greenhouse gases are expected instead to quadruple in the next hundred years. A 5.2% reduction in the next sixteen years would compound to an 8% reduction by the end of this century, i.e., it allows a 92% increase. At this pace we would need another 29 protocols to get where we should be."
con_1_2	The Kyoto Protocol is showing little progress in reducing emissions	 The Kyoto Protocol is showing little progress in reducing emissions Gwyn Prins and Steve Rayner, British economists. "Time to ditch Kyoto". Nature. 22 Oct. 2007 - "The Kyoto Protocol is a symbolically important expression of governments' concern about climate change. But as an instrument for achieving emissions reductions, it has failed...It (Kyoto) has produced no demonstrable reductions in emissions."
con_1_3	Kyoto is too difficult to implement; won't cut emissions	 Kyoto is too difficult to implement; won't cut emissions Leslie Evans. "Kyoto Protocol Said to Harm Effort to Stop Global Warming--But There Is Something Better". UCLA International Institute. May 25, 2007 - "2. The Kyoto Protocol is extremely difficult to implement. "It is costly and involves moral hazards." There are three implementation mechanisms: (A) Trade in permits to emit greenhouse gases. (B) Joint implementation mechanism. (C) Clean development mechanism."
con_1_4	The Kyoto protocol cannot significantly cut emissions without the US	 The Kyoto protocol cannot significantly cut emissions without the US Lord May, former Chief Scientific Adviser to the UK Government between 1995 and 2000, said in 2005, "The Royal Society has calculated that the 13 per cent rise in greenhouse gas emissions from the United States between 1990 and 2002 is already bigger than the overall cut achieved if all the other parties to the Protocol reach their targets. Even if emissions from the United States stay at the same level until 2012, which is an unrealistically conservative assumption, while the other targets are met, the overall results for the original parties to the Protocol will be a rise in emissions of 1.6 per cent instead of the desired reduction of 5.2 per cent."[6]
con_1_5	Kyoto regulations on C02 emissions do not improve air-quality	 Kyoto regulations on C02 emissions do not improve air-quality 
con_1_6	The Kyoto Protocol's emissions targets are unrealistic	 The Kyoto Protocol's emissions targets are unrealistic 
headline_2	Symbol: Is Kyoto an important symbol in the fight on global warming?
pro_2_1	Kyoto Protocol is important symbol in climate fight	 Kyoto Protocol is important symbol in climate fight The Kyoto Protocol is the most important international environmental and global warming treaty ever created. Joining it, and making it succeed is a very important symbolic measure in the life of this environmental movement. Rejecting it, or letting it fail, damages the long-term viability of this movement.
con_2_1	Kyoto protocol is too costly a symbol	 Kyoto protocol is too costly a symbol Sterling Burnett. "Was U.S. wise to reject Kyoto treaty on climate change?". National Center for Policy Analysis. 1 May 2005 - "even as the champagne corks popped, Kyoto’s apologists were quietly admitting that the treaty would not prevent global warming, stating its importance was largely ‘‘symbolic.’’ After eight years and tens-of-millions of tax dollars spent: Kyoto is, indeed, an expensive symbol!"
headline_3	A good first step: Is the Kyoto Protocol a good first step?
pro_3_1	Kyoto is an important first step in the right direction	 Kyoto is an important first step in the right direction John Gummer. "Viewpoint: Kyoto - the only game in town". BBC. 29 July 2004 - "Its targets for reduction in our greenhouse gases are smaller than we need but it is the first step on the journey and that is always the hardest."
con_3_1	The Kyoto Protocol is not very expandable	 The Kyoto Protocol is not very expandable Leslie Evans. "Kyoto Protocol Said to Harm Effort to Stop Global Warming--But There Is Something Better". UCLA International Institute. May 25, 2007 - "3. It is unlikely the Kyoto Protocol will be expanded. The defenders of the Protocol, Verweij said, 'have always argued that it is only the first step. The problem is that there may not be a second step. There may not even be a first step. A leading Brazilian civil servant has told me that there is no chance there will be a second Kyoto Protocol. The second step would have to bring in the United States as well as the developing countries, which are not included in the first Kyoto Protocol. The developing countries argue that they did not create the problem in the first place. They say, we have much more important problems to deal with, such as drinking water, polluted cities. We don't contribute much to the problem.'"
headline_4	Global warming: Is global warming chiefly man-made, making Kyoto important?
pro_4_1	Global warming is chiefly human-caused, making Kyoto important.	Global warming is chiefly human-caused, making Kyoto important. Global warming has spiked significantly since the industrial revolution, indicating that, despite some possible natural causes of global warming, it is chiefly caused by human green-house gas emissions. As such, the Kyoto Protocol is a very relevant today in fighting global warming.
pro_4_2	Even if humans play a smaller role in climate change, Kyoto is still good.	Even if humans play a smaller role in climate change, Kyoto is still good. Even if humans are not actually the "chief" cause of global warming, there is little dispute that we play some role, due to our emissions of greenhouse gases, which contribute to the warming of the globe. As such, the Kyoto Protocol is an important tool in the fight against human-caused greenhouse gas emissions and global warming. 
pro_4_3	Kyoto is justified if global warming is merely considered probable	 Kyoto is justified if global warming is merely considered probable "Turkey should sign Kyoto Protocol, says Nobel winner". Turkish Daily News. 13 May 2008 - "The scientific evidence for global warming is reviewed every five years and we are becoming increasingly convinced that it is caused by human activity. We can never say that we are 100 percent sure because all science is considered to be a balance of probability."
pro_4_4	Kyoto Protocol is important beyond fighting global warming.	Kyoto Protocol is important beyond fighting global warming. Reducing carbon emissions is important on many levels, not just on the grounds of fighting global warming. Reducing emissions can help fight air pollution, which is becoming an increasingly significant health risk in major cities around the world. Additionally, petroleum resources are running out. It is essential that we move beyond them to renewable alternatives. The Kyoto Protocol provides a good pretext for cutting carbon emissions and moving to renewable resources. It is important to recognize, therefore, that the Kyoto Protocol benefits the world in critical ways other than fighting climate change.
con_4_1	Humans are not causing global warming so Kyoto can't solve it	 Humans are not causing global warming so Kyoto can't solve it Natural causes are principally responsible for global warming today, making Kyoto irrelevant. Every 100,000 years, a cycle of glacial and inter-glacial periods occur. We are at the peak of the 10,000 year interglacial warming period before the next 100,000 year ice age. Our warming now is part of this cycle. Only planetary interactions between the sun and earth can cause such regular, but lengthy cycle's. This leads to the conclusion that the sun is most responsible. Yet, the Kyoto Protocol bases its carbon-cutting objectives on the assumption that humans are chiefly responsible for global warming; a false assumption.
con_4_2	Kyoto would only benefit the global warming establishment	 Kyoto would only benefit the global warming establishment Professor Kirill Kondratyev, Russian Academy of Sciences - "The only people who would be hurt by abandoning the Kyoto Protocol would be several thousand people who make a living attending conferences on global warming."[9]
con_4_3	Kyoto doesn't avert crisis; global warming has many positives	 Kyoto doesn't avert "crisis"; global warming has many positives S. Fred Singer. "A Stronger Case Against Kyoto". The Independent Institute. 14 May 2001 - "advancing climate science could convince the public that human-induced climate change is a minor contributor to the much larger natural changes and that, in any case, a slightly warmer climate and higher carbon dioxide levels would benefit agricultural crops and all of humanity."
headline_5	Exemptions: Is the Kyoto Protocol justified in exempting developing countries?
pro_5_1	Industrial countries caused global warming so should carry burden	 Industrial countries caused global warming so should carry burden Al Gore. "Moving Beyond Kyoto". New York Times. 1 July 2007 - "There are some who will try to pervert this precedent and use xenophobia or nativist arguments to say that every country should be held to the same standard. But should countries with one-fifth our gross domestic product — countries that contributed almost nothing in the past to the creation of this crisis — really carry the same load as the United States? Are we so scared of this challenge that we cannot lead?"
pro_5_2	India/China can be pressured into joining Kyoto or other treaties	 India/China can be pressured into joining Kyoto or other treaties Ralph Nader, attorney, author, and political activist, stated in a Mar. 19, 2008 interview with environmental website Grist.org: - "Q: Many argue that the US shouldn't commit to a global greenhouse-gas reduction target that doesn't involve China and India. Do you agree with this? How would you bring them to the table?
pro_5_3	China is actually taking good measures to fight global warming	 China is actually taking good measures to fight global warming. Ma Kai. "China is shouldering its climate change burden". Financial Times. 3 June 2007 - "China has worked hard to adjust its economic structure to improve energy saving and cut emissions. From 1991 to 2005, with national energy consumption rising each year by 5.6 per cent, China sustained an annual economic growth rate of 10 per cent and lowered its energy consumption per unit of gross domestic product by 47 per cent, saving 800m tons of coal and cutting 1.8bn tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions." 
con_5_1	Kyoto Protocol wrongly exempts large developing nations	 Kyoto Protocol wrongly exempts large developing nations. If the developing world's emissions are not contained by the Kyoto Protocol, then the efforts of developed countries are rendered meaningless.  
con_5_2	Kyoto regulations on developed nations hurts developing nations	 Kyoto regulations on developed nations hurts developing nations Hans Martin Seip and Sigbjørn Grønås. "Organized opposition to the Kyoto Protocol". CICERO. 16 Mar. 2005 - "A report from the International Policy Network (IPN) claims that restricting emissions of greenhouse gases in industrialized countries will hinder growth in developing countries. This is used as an argument against international agreements that restrict emissions. The report can be seen as urging Europe to follow the U.S. example in its climate policy."[13] 
headline_6	Economics: Would Kyoto have a positive economic impact?
pro_6_1	The Kyoto Protocol's emissions targets are economically reasonable	 The Kyoto Protocol's emissions targets are economically reasonable - A large part of this argument is empirical. Many countries have demonstrated themselves capable of meeting Kyoto's targets with negligible impact on their economies.
pro_6_2	The Kyoto Protocol stimulates new industries	 The Kyoto Protocol stimulates new industries "Rudd a green light for eco-businesses". News.com.au. 1 Dec. 2007 - "ECO-lobbyists emitted tonnes of greenhouse gases this week as carbonated wine corks popped following the victory of the 'lower-emission' Labor Party. 'We're still drinking bubbly,' said one pro-renewable energy advocate midweek. The more than 400 businesses operating in the energy efficiency and zero emission industries had despaired for their bottom lines after the Coalition's Kyoto stand-off had stalled economic incentives to cut greenhouse emissions for 11 years."
pro_6_3	Kyoto does not require we choose between environment and economy	 Kyoto does not require we choose between environment and economy Joseph Biden wrote in a 2001 letter to President Bush - "It's a false choice to say we need to favor the economy over the environment. Especially given the progress we've made in developing the technological knowhow to profit from a shift to cleaner energy production. The previous Administration was successful in working with business and environmental groups toward an agreement that protects both American interests and the world environment. The Bush Administration would have been wise to build upon this success."[14]
pro_6_4	Costs of Kyoto are less than environmental-economic costs of inaction	 Costs of Kyoto are less than environmental-economic costs of inaction Joseph Heath. "Fuzzy math dominates Kyoto debate." Montreal Gazette. November 14th, 2002 - "When we burn it in fuel, and then breathe it in, we are literally poisoning ourselves. It causes heart and kidney problems in adults, and mental retardation in children. People pay thousands of dollars to have lead-based paint removed from their homes. So when we evaluate the ban on leaded fuel, it is meaningless to look at the costs without also looking at the benefits. In Canada, the ban on leaded fuel led to a 99% reduction in airborne lead emissions."
pro_6_5	Opponents of Kyoto are pandering to the energy industry	 Opponents of Kyoto are pandering to the energy industry Laurie David, Natural Resources Defense Council - "As the world celebrates the global warming pact's debut, Bush continues to pander to the energy industry."[15]
pro_6_6	Government can cut-back on military spending to pay for Kyoto	 Government can cut-back on military spending to pay for Kyoto Gwyn Prins1 & Steve Rayner. "Time to ditch Kyoto". Nature. 25 Oct. 2007 - "It seems reasonable to expect the world's leading economies and emitters to devote as much money to this challenge as they currently spend on military research -- in the case of the United States about $80 billion a year."
con_6_1	The Kyoto Protocol entails serious economic costs for signatories	 The Kyoto Protocol entails serious economic costs for signatories Andrei Illarionov, Putin's economic minister - "The Kyoto Protocol is a death pact, however strange it may sound, because its main aim is to strangle economic growth and economic activity in countries that accept the protocol's requirements."[16]
con_6_2	Kyoto is a cost-ineffective approach to solving global warming	 Kyoto is a cost-ineffective approach to solving global warming "The Case Against Kyoto." The Guardian. 21 February 2004. - "Kyoto is among the least cost-effective ways to address climate change. It thus violates the UN framework convention on climate change (to which both Britain and the US are parties), which obliges governments to pursue "cost-effective" measures to address climate change. Our poll found that 70% of Britons believe that the UK should pursue these more cost-effective measures, rather than Kyoto."
con_6_3	Kyoto Protocol employs inefficient government controls	 Kyoto Protocol employs inefficient government controls Alan Keyes, former Assistant US Secretary of State, stated in a Sep. 16, 2000 article titled "Canning Kyoto." - "It is difficult to know where to begin in listing the evils and dangers of the Kyoto Protocol...[M]assive, inevitably clumsy and arbitrary government intervention to reduce the energy metabolism of the American economy would dramatically reduce -- or even reverse -- our long-term economic growth." 
con_6_4	Publics do not support paying a major price to fight global warming	 Publics do not support paying a major price to fight global warming S. Fred Singer. "A Stronger Case Against Kyoto". The Independent Institute. 14 May 2001 - "while the American public may express concern about global warming, a recent Time/CNN poll indicates that less than half would be willing to pay an additional 25 cents for a gallon of gasoline."
con_6_5	Kyoto Protocol conflicts with some international trade agreements	 Kyoto Protocol conflicts with some international trade agreements. Jinnah, Sikina. "Emissions trading under the Kyoto Protocol: NAFTA and WTO concerns." Georgetown International Environmental Law Review. Summer 2003 - "Conflicts may arise between MEAs, such as the Kyoto Protocol, and international trade agreements, such as the General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs (GATT)/WTO and the NAFTA.4 Member trade obligations under the GATT/ WTO and NAFTA may restrict freedom to participate in the emissions trading system established under the Kyoto Protocol.5 Members to the GATT/WTO and NAFTA are restricted in their ability to place quantitative barriers to trade (such as quotas, sanctions, and taxes) affecting products or services from other member nations. Conflict may emerge because Kyoto Protocol member nations may only account for emission reduction units (ERUs) created in other Kyoto Protocol member nations. Concern arises about the ability of a country that is member both to the GATT/WTO or the NAFTA as well as to the Kyoto Protocol to place trade restrictions on ERUs created in countries that are member to the GATT/ WTO or the NAFTA but not party to the Kyoto Protocol." 
headline_7	Markets: Does the Kyoto protocol constrain or exploit market forces?
pro_7_1	Markets alone won't reduce emissions; Kyoto necessary	 Markets alone won't reduce emissions; Kyoto necessary May, Elizabeth, Executive Director of Sierra Club Canada. "The Kyoto Debate: Separating rhetoric from reality". Sierra Club. Dec. 2002 - "Perhaps, as people like Bjorn Lomborg, the self-proclaimed “Skeptical Environmentalist,” all this [emissions reductions] will happen by the natural action of the market. Perhaps fossil fuel exploitation will go the way of the dinosaur for purely economic reasons. There is not much evidence for that. We did not wait for the economy to solve acid rain or ozone depletion. The economy and rational economic choices kick in once the rules are clear. The Kyoto Protocol begins a long road to reduction. It starts with a fairly modest effort to monetize carbon. It is just the first step, and we should take it now."
con_7_1	Kyoto Protocol employs inefficient government controls	 Kyoto Protocol employs inefficient government controls White House spokeswoman Dana Perino stated in 1997, following the US Senate vote against ratification of the Kyoto Treaty, "The United States continues to believe that the Kyoto Protocol is not in the best interest of the United States, and it's just not the administration but the Congress that does not support it because of the deleterious effects it would have on the economy."[17]
con_7_2	Regulating C02 is wrong approach; market investments are better	 Regulating C02 is wrong approach; market investments are better Marco Verweij, senior research fellow at the Max Planck Project Group on Common Goods - "You need to invent the technology and distribute it. You don't need to have every country involved in regulation and measurement. A single company can have a big impact, whereas in Kyoto every country in the world has to create a major bureaucracy to administer the Kyoto standards. and costs."[18]
headline_8	Obligatory: Are Kyoto Protocol's obligatory cuts appropriate?
pro_8_1	Voluntary emissions schemes do not effectively cut emissions	 Voluntary emissions schemes do not effectively cut emissions Bramley, Matthew. "The Case for Kyoto. The Failure of Voluntary Corporate Action. Pembina Institute and the David Suzuki Foundation. Oct. 2002. - "Since 1990, Canada has been relying on industrial firms to voluntarily reduce their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to help slow climate change...the voluntary approach to cutting Canada’s industrial emissions has been wholly inadequate. The report concludes that Canada needs the legally binding framework of the Kyoto Protocol if it is to begin reversing the emissions increases seen since 1990."
pro_8_2	Voluntary emissions reduction schemes have low participation levels	 Voluntary emissions reduction schemes have low participation levels Bramley, Matthew. "The Case for Kyoto. The Failure of Voluntary Corporate Action. Pembina Institute and the David Suzuki Foundation. Oct. 2002. - "The level of participation in the VCR, impressive at first sight, turns out on closer inspection to be mediocre. Out of 493 industrial entities registered with VCR in mid-2002, only 102 actually reported their year 2000 emissions by March 31, 2002." 
con_8_1	Any treaty on reducing emissions should be voluntary	 Any treaty on reducing emissions should be voluntary Daniel Imperato, an Independent candidate and business entrepreneur, issued the following statement through his press secretary, Joseph Oddo, in a Nov. 30, 2007 email to ProCon.org - "We should encourage voluntary citizen participation in carbon emissions and collaborate with the international community on reaching an acceptable protocol. If run by the government, it will get messed up."[19]
con_8_2	Kyoto emissions reductions are undermined by corruption	 Kyoto emissions reductions are undermined by corruption Marco Verweij, senior research fellow at the Max Planck Project Group on Common Goods, Bonn - "I would argue that the Kyoto Protocol is nonsense, that it could lead to a lot of corruption and have no appreciable effect."[20]
headline_9	Sovereignty: Is the Kyoto Protocol consistent with national sovereignty?
pro_9_1	Countries must work together under Kyoto to combat global warming	 Countries must work together under Kyoto to combat global warming Dennis Kucinich, US Representative (D-OH), stated in a June 20, 2007 article titled "Campaign for America's Future: Take Back America 2007" on the Federal News Service: "...[A]s we reduce our carbon footprint, simultaneously we work with the world community. The Kyoto Climate Change Treaty is just the first step. We need to go beyond Kyoto. We need to reach out to the world and reduce our carbon emissions, and we need to have environmental protection to secure our food supplies."[21]
con_9_1	Kyoto Protocol violates national sovereignty and controls	 Kyoto Protocol violates national sovereignty and controls. Chuck Baldwin, Founder and Minister of the Crossroad Baptist Church in Pensacola, FL, issued the following statement on Aug. 11, 2008 - "We oppose environmental treaties and conventions such as the Biodiversity Treaty, the Convention on Climate Control, and Agenda 21, which destroy our sovereignty and right to private property."[22]
con_9_2	Kyoto emission targets are not flexible to needs of different countries	 Kyoto emission targets are not flexible to needs of different countries Susan Munroe. "Issue - The Kyoto Protocol and Canada". About.com - "Greenhouse gas emission targets should recognize a nation's special circumstances, for example whether it has a resource-based economy like Canada, its temperature, and distance between urban centres."
headline_10	United States: Should the United States sign the treaty?
pro_10_1	The Kyoto protocol cannot significantly cut emissions without the US.	The Kyoto protocol cannot significantly cut emissions without the US. The Kyoto Protocol has the potential to achieve its objectives for cutting emissions. But, this cannot be achieved without US participation, as the US is the world's largest emitter of carbon dioxide. Therefore, the US should join, and enable the Kyoto Protocol to succeed. 
pro_10_2	US has a responsibility to lead on climate change and in Kyoto	 US has a responsibility to lead on climate change and in Kyoto Joe Biden, US Senator (D-DE), stated in a Mar. 30, 2001 press release - "The President's decision to turn his back on this treaty is a huge setback for the environment and could delay action on global warming for years... The United States has an inescapable responsibility to lead on global environmental challenges. It's wrong to simply walk away from this international agreement."[23]
pro_10_3	The US is (wrongly) the only industrial economy to oppose Kyoto	 The US is (wrongly) the only industrial economy to oppose Kyoto With the ouster of Australia's prime minister John Howard, Australia is no longer withholding from the Kyoto Protocol. This leaves the United States as the only large economy withholding support. 
pro_10_4	Opposition to Kyoto strains US image in the world	 Opposition to Kyoto strains US image in the world Joe Biden, US Senator (D-DE), stated in a Mar. 30, 2001 press release titled - "By declaring he has 'no interest' in the Kyoto treaty, the President has walked away from yet another important environmental commitment...I can't say I'm surprised, but I am disappointed. Many of our allies are upset, and with good reason."[24]
pro_10_5	US cities are adopting Kyoto, the federal government should too	 US cities are adopting Kyoto, the federal government should too Eli Sanders. "Seattle leads U.S. cities joining Kyoto Protocol". International Herald Tribune. 16 May 2005 - "Unsettled by a series of dry winters in this normally wet city, Mayor Greg Nickels has begun a nationwide effort to do something the Bush administration will not: carry out the Kyoto Protocol on global warming...Nickels, a Democrat, says 131 other like-minded mayors have joined a bipartisan coalition to fight global warming on the local level, in an implicit rejection of the administration's policy."
con_10_1	The Kyoto protocol would harm the American economy	 The Kyoto protocol would harm the American economy "The Impact of the Kyoto Protocol on U.S. Economic Growth and Projected Budget Surpluses". American Council for Economic Formation. 25 Mar. 1999. - "Macroeconomic Effects of CO2 Emissions Limits Are Significant. A wide range of economic models predict that reducing U.S. carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions to either 1990 levels or to the Kyoto target (7 percent below 1990 emission levels) would reduce U.S. GDP and slow wage growth significantly, worsen the distribution of income, and reduce growth in living standards. If the United States is not able to take advantage of "where" flexibility (reducing emissions wherever it is cheapest globally) through international emissions trading to meet the Kyoto target, the cost in terms of lost output will range from about 1 percent to over 4 percent of GDP."
con_10_2	Kyoto Protocol is too controversial in the US to be ratified	 Kyoto Protocol is too controversial in the US to be ratified Al Gore. "Moving Beyond Kyoto". New York Times. 1 July 2007 - "I am proud of my role during the Clinton administration in negotiating the Kyoto protocol. But I believe that the protocol has been so demonized in the United States that it probably cannot be ratified here — much in the way the Carter administration was prevented from winning ratification of an expanded strategic arms limitation treaty in 1979. Moreover, the negotiations will soon begin on a tougher climate treaty."
con_10_3	US population growth increased energy demand; Kyoto is impractical	 US population growth increased energy demand; Kyoto is impractical. The United States is different than most European countries in the way that it has substantial population growth relatively. Because growing populations require more energy, the United States has been in a different situation relative to Europe vis-a-vis its ability to constrain carbon emissions in the Kyoto Protocol. 
con_10_4	It is unimportant for the US to join Kyoto now	 It is unimportant for the US to join Kyoto now Lachman, Brenda. "Kyoto Protocol: Why the US should join". Helium. Retrieved 9 Jul. 2008. - "Whether the US joins or not is not that important now, what really counts is that the industry in the US, individually, like California has, takes the necessary steps to lower the emissions of greenhouse gases and carbon dioxide for the sake of the environment, because the environment is precious to our survival."
con_10_5	US is just a scapegoat for the failed Kyoto Protocol	 US is just a scapegoat for the failed Kyoto Protocol Gwyn Prins1 & Steve Rayner. "Time to ditch Kyoto". Nature. 25 Oct. 2007 - "Kyoto's supporters often blame non-signatory governments, especially the United States and Australia, for its woes," say Mr. Prins and Mr. Rayner. "But the Kyoto Protocol was always the wrong tool for the nature of the job."
headline_11	Next Kyoto: Should the successor to Kyoto in 2012 be modeled after Kyoto?
con_11_1	Kyoto Protocol is generally not a good model for future treaties	 Kyoto Protocol is generally not a good model for future treaties Bronwen Maddox. "Why Kyoto will vanish into hot air". Times Online. 29 Nov. 2005 - "The best way forward now is not a "successor" to Kyoto, which covers the years until 2012. Another treaty that attempted to set fixed targets for cutting emisssions could be economically very damaging — in the unlikely event that countries ever reached agreement...The better answer is in the plethora of bargains between a handful of rich and poor countries, which some are already exploring. It is also in the development of new technology to combat global warming, and in deals to spread these quickly to poorer countries." 
headline_12	Organizations pro and con
