title	Year-round school
question	Are year-round schools a good idea?
headline_1	Summer learning loss: Can year-round schooling help solve this problem?
pro_1_1	Summer breaks result in summer learning loss	 Summer breaks result in "summer learning loss" Experts frequently speak about "summer learning loss" as a major problem for North American students. The theory is that, during summer break from school, students set aside learning entirely, fall behind educationally and mentally in those three months, and come back to school behind where they left off. Year-round schooling counters "summer learning loss" by eliminating summer breaks and replacing them with more consistent breaks distributed throughout the year. Under this system, students enjoy a much more consistent and stable learning pace and rate of improvement. 
pro_1_2	Year-round schooling requires less review of past materials	 Year-round schooling requires less review of past materials Gary Hawkins - "[After short vacations of year-round schooling] It’s like they’ve come back from the weekend. They are basically ready to go where we left off; there’s very little review."[1]
pro_1_3	Frequent short-breaks allow for enrichment programs and tutoring.	Frequent short-breaks allow for enrichment programs and tutoring. Short breaks in a year-round schooling system can provide time for students to receive enrichment education.
con_1_1	Year-round schools, with equal vacation time, is no better for learning	 Year-round schools, with equal vacation time, is no better for learning Paul von Hippel, ScienceDaily (Aug. 14, 2007) - “We found that students in year-round schools learn more during the summer, when others are on vacation, but they seem to learn less than other children during the rest of the year,”
con_1_2	The studies on year-round schooling are inconclusive.	The studies on year-round schooling are inconclusive. It is very difficult to assess the impacts of year-round schooling. While some studies have concluded there are benefits, others have found no measurable benefits. The answer remains unclear.
con_1_3	Students also forget lessons after breaks in year-round schools	 Students also forget lessons after breaks in year-round schools Melissa Kelly. "Year Round Education. Pros and Cons". About.com. - "Students are going to forget information whether they are out of school for three weeks or 10. Therefore, teachers will be performing four beginning of the year reviews instead of just one."
headline_2	Achievement: Do year-round schools favor student achievement?
pro_2_1	Studies find year-round schools improve student performance	 Studies find year-round schools improve student performance Reports from the California State Department Of Education show that standardized test scores increased an average of 9.5% in Grade 3 with an average increase of 13.3% in reading scores[1]
pro_2_2	9-month schooling crams too much info into shorter period	 9-month schooling crams too much info into shorter period Jeanette Wat. "Extended Year-Round Schooling, Extended Success". Naperville, Illinois - "The third problem is insufficient learning time.  In order to provide a long summer break, learning must cram within a shorter period of time, which requires students like John to either give up a comprehensive learning or cut sleep, both of which are undesirable.  Furthermore, a long summer results in less learning time and less knowledge acquired."
pro_2_3	Year-round school's frequent vacations help refresh students	 Year-round school's frequent vacations help refresh students Charles Ballinger and Carolyn Kneese indicate in their book,  School Calendar Reform, "A balanced year-round calendar provides a logical pacing of instruction, followed by regular breaks.  Refreshed by the breaks, teachers and students return ready to work."[2]
con_2_1	Year-round schooling does not improve overall teaching programs	 Year-round schooling does not improve overall teaching programs "Year-Round Schools May Not Be the Answer." Education Resource Information Center. 11 Sept. 1992 - "Recent studies suggest that year-round schools do not improve education. Shifting days of attendance does not address problems such as lack of parent involvement and the need for restructured curricula, continued education for teachers, and improved teaching methods."
con_2_2	Many conclude year-round schooling worsens student achievement.	Many conclude year-round schooling worsens student achievement. Opponents insist that year-round education is detrimental to student learning. Some school board officials and studies indicate negative impacts of schedule changes and year-round education. Lawsuits have even been filed[2] against various school districts, citing year-round schools as being "harmful to students."
headline_3	At risk: Does year-round schooling help the at-risk?
pro_3_1	Summer learning loss harms poor students most	 "Summer learning loss" harms poor students most Martin Davey. "The case for year-round schooling". Star.com. 14 July 2008 - "Summer learning loss also widens the gap between rich and poor children because disadvantaged kids are less likely to have books at home to help maintain skills and knowledge."
con_3_1	Year-round school is not uniquely helpful to at-risk students	 Year-round school is not uniquely helpful to at-risk students "Stop Year-round School in Auburn". A report to the Auburn City Schools Board of Education. 7 Nov. 1998 - "Of concern to any school system is the low achievement of at-risk students. The number of at-risk students in the ACS district is 537 as cited at PTA meetings. There are about 4100 students enrolled in the district schools. The advantage of YRS for at-risk students is the possibility that remediation during the intersessions might help. Unfortunately this promise has not been fulfilled. As was pointed out at the Cary Woods PTA meeting, the suggestion that 9 weeks of failure can be remedied in one week of intersession is unrealistic."
headline_4	Vacation: Will getting rid of summer vacation be tolerable?
pro_4_1	Year-round schooling offers three month-long breaks.	Year-round schooling offers three month-long breaks. Instead of having summer break for 3 months year long school would have school for 3 months and a month of break. Students that like winter sports will have a chance to play them. Students that like summer sports they will be able to swim too. Every body is happy. There is a break for almost every season so it would be a good little break for them every three months they will be able to get away for a month. That will mean less stress with a long period of time to be in school. Students will have something to look forward to every three months, will have a goal, and will do good in school so that the reward is the month of vacation. Students GPA's may improve along with the reputation of schools.
pro_4_2	Year-round schools have same overall schooling and vacation time.	Year-round schools have same overall schooling and vacation time. Year-round schooling means schools continue to operate on a 180 school-day system, yet they spread these days out differently with shorter breaks between each term. The most popular example of year round education is the 45-15 plan.[3]
pro_4_3	Year-round school and vacations offer more balanced life-style	 Year-round school and vacations offer more balanced life-style National Association for Year-round Education (NAYRE) - "The year-round calendar is organized into instructional periods and vacation weeks that are more evenly balanced across 12 months than the traditional school calendar." 
pro_4_4	The summer camp industry will not be hurt.	The summer camp industry will not be hurt. Summer camps will have the same amount of time to operate, only spread throughout the year. This may actually help the industry due to the ability to diversify into other seasonal activities, such as skiing.
pro_4_5	Students get bored during the long break of summer.	Students get bored during the long break of summer. Most students get bored during summer vacations, when there is much less activity and stimulation. Why not continue their stimulation and enjoyment throughout the year. 
con_4_1	Many school buildings are not built for summer use.	Many school buildings are not built for summer use.  One of the historical reasons for avoiding school during summer was the lack of air conditioning during summer months.  This is a problem throughout the United States and southern Canada, particularly for older buildings.  School buildings, classrooms in particular, tend not to be well ventilated.  This is not a handicap when buildings have to be heated, but is when an older building is retrofitted for summer use.  Room air conditioners are usually inappropriate for spaces with high ceilings and lots of volume - typical of most classrooms.  They would also require electrical retrofitting. 
con_4_2	Summer youth programs suffer from year-round schooling.	Summer youth programs suffer from year-round schooling. Youth summer camps rely on the existence of year-round schooling systems with summer breaks. Year-round schooling will threaten the viability of these systems, and, subsequently the positive experience enjoyed by young attendees.  Academic summer programs such as CTY demand a large block of time in order to teach their targeted content. While there may be an equal amount of vacation year-round with year-round schooling, they would be in blocks too small to allow for many types of summer programs.
con_4_3	It would anger nearly all school children.	It would anger nearly all school children. Going to school every day for 13 years would anger and outrage almost every school child in the world. Ask any child who goes to school, and they will tell you that they do need a break sometimes. Kids need a break for school and a time to relax. The whole concept of making children go to school every single day for 13 years is absurd.
con_4_4	Some children may get bored during summer-break, but more keep busy.	Some children may get bored during summer-break, but more keep busy. Juniors need to do college search, a wide range of students have summer jobs, etc.
headline_5	Farm-culture: Is 9-month schooling a function of farm-culture?
pro_5_1	Summer-breaks are an antiquated extension of farming culture	 Summer-breaks are an antiquated extension of farming culture Don Heinzman. "Year-round schooling has advantages". Hometown Source. - "The traditional school calendar was devised mainly to serve the needs of farmers who needed the help of their youngsters during the summer. The need for three months off in the summer is diminishing."
pro_5_2	Opponents of year-round schooling are simply intolerant of change	 Opponents of year-round schooling are simply intolerant of change Jeanette Wat. "Extended Year-Round Schooling, Extended Success". Naperville, Illinois - "It takes time to widely change an education program that has been used in this country for many decades.  People get used to it, and it is human nature to resist change. Some of the resistance, though, originated from the organizations of summer recreational programs and other summer programs. It is, therefore, important for us to focus on our students and their needs.  We then see that we just cannot maintain the status quo on traditional schooling and continue to put our students in a disadvantageous position."
con_5_1	Changing to year-round schooling has significant costs.	Changing to year-round schooling has significant costs. Resistance to change, in the case of moving to year-round schooling, is justified on the basis of the actual costs of adjusting to change. The adjustment period is challenging for students and teachers alike, takes administrative time and effort, and so is both emotionally and financially costly. It is not, therefore, unreasonable to consider change itself as a potential cost in this debate. Particularly if all else seems equal between a traditional school and a year-round school, it is reasonable to resist year-round schooling on the basis that change is costly.
headline_6	Teachers: Is year-round schooling agreeable for teachers?
pro_6_1	Teachers in year-round school districts prefer their system.	Teachers in year-round school districts prefer their system. Surveys in year-round districts indicate that between 60% to 90% of teachers prefer year-round education.[4]
con_6_1	Teachers need summer vacation to stay sane and focused.	Teachers need summer vacation to stay sane and focused. Teaching is a very difficult profession. Teachers often express that they need summer breaks. Year-round schooling takes this away from teachers, and will likely diminish the quality of teaching as a result.
con_6_2	Year-round schooling impairs summer teacher development.	Year-round schooling impairs summer teacher development. The summer time is a good opportunity for teachers to seek additional training and develop their skills. It also offers employment opportunities that can help broaden the experience that an educator brings to students. Year-round schooling makes this impossible, and so can diminish the quality of teaching and learning as a result. It can also make teaching a less attractive profession.
headline_7	Economics: Are there economic benefits to year round schooling?
pro_7_1	Year-round schools are growing in number and succeeding.	Year-round schools are growing in number and succeeding. Don Heinzman. "Year-round schooling has advantages". Hometown Source. - "In Minnesota there are 27 year-round educational programs. They are succeeding wherever they’ve been started[...]Throughout the country, 2 million youngsters are attending year-round schools, mainly in California, Texas, Florida and Kentucky."
pro_7_2	Year-round schools distribute resources more effectively throughout the year	Year-round schools distribute resources more effectively throughout the year. Year round schools - Advantages (Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia) -"Multi-tracking allows more cost-effective use of school resources by distributing them more efficiently in time"
pro_7_3	Not-using schools in the summer is generally inefficient.	Not-using schools in the summer is generally inefficient. During summer breaks, school facilities sit un-used. This is generally an inefficient use of capital. Few successful businesses, for instance, would adopt such a policy. In addition, stopping and starting major institutions creates an inefficient and costly re-adjustment period at the beginning of each school year.
pro_7_4	Year-round school is key in an increasingly competitive world	 Year-round school is key in an increasingly competitive world "The case for year-round schooling". Star.com. 14 July 2008 - "In an increasingly competitive world, it's time we gave our children every advantage and it's clear that means year-round schooling."
pro_7_5	Summer is the peak time for the tourism industry.	Summer is the peak time for the tourism industry. With this blow to tourism, many companies will not survive. Summer is the peak time and if no-one can go on holidays, most small businesses will go out of business.
pro_7_6	The tourism industry may benefit from year-round schooling.	The tourism industry may benefit from year-round schooling. from the spread of breaks throughout the year. Many places are flat out more attractive in certain seasons, and this opens up more opportunities to showcase the location in it's prime. 
pro_7_7	Year-round schooling avoids the problem of summer-vacation surges.	Year-round schooling avoids the problem of summer-vacation surges. It's easier to schedule vacations under a year-round schooling system because not everyone wants to travel at the same time. 
con_7_1	Areas that depend heavily on summer tourism will suffer economically.	Areas that depend heavily on summer tourism will suffer economically.  Cottage areas typically swell in population by five to ten times during the summer months, generally with regular cottagers.  Many of these areas are ill suited to all-year tourism due to the facilities available (such as boating) and the necessity of winterizing housing, from cottages to resorts.  Many resort operators are closed during the winter and rely on summer business in order to stay in operation. Ironically, these areas rely heavily on taxation of summer residents to finance their own schools.  
con_7_2	Students and parents don't have to continuously buy school supplies.	Students and parents don't have to continuously buy school supplies. There are financial benefits to not using year round schooling because you don't have to buy as many school supplies. Students and their parents also don't have to buy their own supplies. You also don't have to continuously pay for lunch money, bus fares etc.
con_7_3	Year-round schooling damages summer-break student employment.	Year-round schooling damages summer-break student employment. The summer-time is an important opportunity for students to earn some money and gain some experience in the work-force. Year-round school programs make this impossible. This can alienate students that need to generate funding to help pay for their education or that desire to obtain experience that helps them reflect on the kind of future they want for themselves and the kind of higher education required to achieve these goals.
con_7_4	Year-round schooling can harm community businesses	 Year-round schooling can harm community businesses "Year-Round Schools May Not Be the Answer." Education Resource Information Center. 11 Sept. 1992 - "disadvantages include...deleterious effects on community businesses." 
con_7_5	Year-round schooling is only cost effective when addressing overcrowding	 Year-round schooling is only cost effective when addressing overcrowding "Year-Round Schools May Not Be the Answer." Education Resource Information Center. 11 Sept. 1992 - "Many districts are finding that year-round schools are not cost-effective to operate unless the student population substantially exceeds traditional school capacity."
headline_8	Crowding: Are year-round schools a good way to deal with over-crowding?
pro_8_1	Year-round schooling handles more students, requires fewer schools	 Year-round schooling handles more students, requires fewer schools National Association for Year Round Education, Typical Calendars - Multi-Track  is used primarily to alleviate overcrowding, although it also incorporates the educational values of single-track YRE, including intersessions. It was designed specifically for schools with a shortage of classroom space. Multi-track is used to avoid double sessions, building new schools and temporary structures. It not only saves on capital construction costs, but on the ongoing costs that are part of operating a new school.
con_8_1	Multi-track year-round schools often become overcrowded	 Multi-track year-round schools often become overcrowded "Year-round Schools Don't Boost Learning, Study Finds". Science Daily. 14 Aug. 2007 - "Year-round schools also tended to have problems with overcrowding. In fact, year-round schedules are often adopted to cope with crowding. By staggering students' schedules, year-round schools can arrange for some students to be in session when others are on vacation; in this way, schools can accommodate more students than they could on a traditional nine-month calendar."
con_8_2	Year-round schooling may only temporarily relieve overcrowding	 Year-round schooling may only temporarily relieve overcrowding "Year-Round Schools May Not Be the Answer." Education Resource Information Center. 11 Sept. 1992 - "Los Angeles and Houston also found that year-round schools only temporarily relieved their overcrowding problems." 
headline_9	Parent choice: Is year-round schooling a valuable extra choice for parents?
pro_9_1	Year-round education is a good alternative choice for parents	 Year-round education is a good alternative choice for parents It is important that parents and children have different alternative forms of schooling to choose from. Some forms of schooling fit the needs and desires and parents and children better than others. Some parents desire to have year-round schooling. They should give given the alternative of year-round schooling. 
pro_9_2	Tradition and year-round schools can exist side-by-side	 Tradition and year-round schools can exist side-by-side There is no conflict in having both educational systems in place in the same district. Don Heinzman writes, "The Cambridge elementary and middle year-round schools operate side by side with little controversy, due in part to strong school board, administrative and staff support."[5]
con_9_1	Multi-tracking puts children on different schedules.	Multi-tracking puts children on different schedules. By putting children on different educational schedules, multi-tracking risks segmenting generations of students in alienating ways. It is emotionally and psychologically beneficial for students to be part of a community program and schedule. Isolating them on individual plans will alienate students. 
