title	$700 billion US economic bailout
question	Is the $700 billion bailout plan for the 2008 US financial crisis a good idea?
headline_1	Economics: Is the $700b bailout economically sound/necessary?
pro_1_1	Not passing $700b bailout risks sending economy into major recession	 Not passing $700b bailout risks sending economy into major recession U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson summarized the rationale for the bailout in testimony before Congress in September, 2008 - "We must...avoid a continuing series of financial institution failures and frozen credit markets that threaten American families' financial well-being, the viability of businesses both small and large, and the very health of our economy."[1]
pro_1_2	$700b bailout helps avoid widespread bankruptcies/layoffs	 $700b bailout helps avoid widespread bankruptcies/layoffs "Bail-out debate: For and against". BBC. 25 Sept. 2008 - "Job security: Safeguarding jobs across the economy and preventing bankruptcies that 'threaten American families' financial well-being' according to US Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson."
pro_1_3	$700b bailout is generally well designed to solve US economic crisis	 $700b bailout is generally well designed to solve US economic crisis Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson summarized the rationale for the bailout in Testimony before the US Senate - "This troubled asset relief program has to be properly designed for immediate implementation and be sufficiently large to have maximum impact and restore market confidence."[2]
pro_1_4	$700b bailout offers buyer for frozen mortgages; restores liquidity	 $700b bailout offers buyer for frozen mortgages; restores liquidity Kenneth Lewis. "Main Street Needs the Treasury Plan". Wall Street. 26 Sept. 2008 - "Paulson Plan provides a plan Just as optimism in times of growth encourages an upward trend, pessimism in uncertain times can feed a downward trend. Allowing such a trend to gain strength is our great risk...The proposed rescue legislation accomplishes one simple goal: It provides a buyer (the Treasury) for financial assets that cannot be priced today because the market for such assets has temporarily frozen up, enabling financial institutions to stabilize their balance sheets, regain confidence in the system and one another, and start lending again."
pro_1_5	Most economists support the $700b US economic bailout plan	 Most economists support the $700b US economic bailout plan Greg Mankiw, Harvard economics professor. "A Defense of the Paulson Plan". 25 Sept. 2008 - "The Treasury proposal to rescue the financial system has gotten a lot of grief lately, especially from the community of economics professors. A smart friend, who knows more about this topic than I do, emails me his response to the critics: 'Academic economists don't like the Treasury plan, but nearly all of the Wall Street economists are for it. You don't have to be all that cynical to say that the Wall Street economists are talking their book. But I'd like to think that there is at least in part a sense in which they are more attuned to the reality of the situation in credit markets -- that last week we were a day or two away from a breakdown of the financial system.'"
pro_1_6	$700b bailout is important to stabilize volatile global markets	 $700b bailout is important to stabilize volatile global markets "Bail-out debate: For and against". BBC. 25 Sept. 2008 - "Global financial stability: the plan is aimed at bringing calm to an extremely volatile global financial system. The world's richest nations, the Group of Seven (G7) say the package will, 'protect the integrity of the international financial system'."
con_1_1	US economic crisis is not that bad; $700b plan over-adjusts	 US economic crisis is not that bad; $700b plan over-adjusts Larry Elder. "Failure To Be Real Capitalists Caused Crisis" Investors Business Daily. 25 Sept. 2008 - "We are experiencing "the greatest financial crisis since the Great Depression"!...Even if this were true, we aren't even close to that catastrophic event. At the Great Depression's nadir, 25% of adults were unemployed, including nearly 50% of urban black adults. Economist David Wheelock of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis says that by the dawn of 1934, nearly half the urban homes with mortgages were in default, and 7.3% of housing structures had been foreclosed. Today, 6.4% of mortgages are delinquent, 2.75% are in the foreclosure process, and 0.6% of all housing units are bank-owned."
con_1_2	$700 billion bailout plan is too little too late	 $700 billion bailout plan is too little too late "Proposed $700 Billion Bailout Is Too Little, Too Late to End the Debt Crisis; Too Much, Too Soon for the U.S. Bond Market". Weiss Research Inc. 25 Sept. 2008 - "New data and analysis demonstrate that the proposal before Congress for a $700 billion financial industry bailout is too little, too late to end the massive U.S. debt crisis...There should be no illusion that the $700 billion estimate proposed by the Administration will be enough to end the debt crisis. It could very well be just a drop in the bucket."
con_1_3	$700b bailout would increase US deficit and interest rates	 $700b bailout would increase US deficit and interest rates "Proposed $700 Billion Bailout Is Too Little, Too Late to End the Debt Crisis; Too Much, Too Soon for the U.S. Bond Market". Weiss Research Inc. 25 Sept. 2008 - "II. Too Much, Too Soon for the U.S. Bond Market. There should also be no illusion that the market for U.S. government securities can absorb the additional burden of a $700 billion bailout without putting dramatic upward pressure on U.S. interest rates. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) projects the 2009 federal deficit will rise to $482 billion. But adding the cost of announced and proposed bailouts, now approximately $1 trillion, it is undeniable that the federal deficit could double or triple in a short period of time, driving interest rates sharply higher and aggravating the very debt crisis that the bailout plan seeks to alleviate."
con_1_4	$700 bailout wrongly trusts culprits to solve crisis	 $700 bailout wrongly trusts culprits to solve crisis "We Need Another Choice". Daily Kos. 23 Sep. 2008 - "there's little stomach for bailing out what essentially turned into a Ponzi scheme backed by the largest players in the financial industry. Yes, they say they need a massive, trillion-dollar influx of cash to patch the crisis they themselves caused via irrational pricings of mortgage-related derivatives. But when someone has proven to be utterly financially incompetent, giving them a trillion dollars in the hopes that they merely don't blow it all too quickly is not confidence-inspiring."
con_1_5	No assurances that a $700b bailout would work	 No assurances that a $700b bailout would work Sen. Richard C. Shelby of Alabama - "We have been given no credible assurances that this plan will work. We could very well spend $700 billion, or a trillion, and not resolve the crisis."[3]
headline_2	Immediacy: Is/was the passage of a $700b bill urgent?
pro_2_1	$700b bailout must be implemented immediately to avoid crisis	 $700b bailout must be implemented immediately to avoid crisis Rep. Spencer Bachus, Republican of Alabama and Ranking member of the House Financial Services Committee - "Our time has run out. We're going to make a decision. There are no more alternatives. There are no other choices. Just this one choice. And I don't know about you, I believe every member of this body feels as if there's an awesome responsibility on our shoulders. This will be the most difficult decision I make in my 16 years in this body. And I have decided that the cost of not acting outweighs the cost of acting..."[4]
pro_2_2	$700 it is more important to pass a plan than for it to be perfect.	$700 it is more important to pass a plan than for it to be perfect. Many critics of the $700 billion bailout argue that there are problems with the bill, and that little things here and there should be added. Some argue that there are disadvantages to the plan compared to the relative advantages of certain alternatives. But, as these nuances and alternatives are debates, and the passage of a bill is delayed, the economic crisis will continue its downward spiral. The advantages, therefore, of making a bailout plan perfect are outweighed by the costs of delaying the passage of a solution.
con_2_1	Advocates are fear-mongering to ram through $700b plan	 Advocates are fear-mongering to ram through $700b plan "The $700 Billion Bailout". Gaia, blog post. 23rd Jan. 2008 - "Isn't anybody going to stop these people? Many of us bought into the Weapons of Mass Destruction line of bull, and see where that got us. And, oh yes, we were urged to act quickly on that one too, before the mushroom clouds started sprouting over American cities." 
con_2_2	A good solution to the US economic crisis cannot be rushed	 A good solution to the US economic crisis cannot be rushed Sen. Richard Shelby, R-Ala., the top Banking Committee Republican - "I am concerned that Treasury’s proposal is neither workable nor comprehensive. In my judgment, it would be foolish to waste massive sums of taxpayer funds testing an idea that has been hastily crafted, and may actually cause the government to revert to an inadequate strategy of ad hoc bailouts."[5]
headline_3	Intervention: Can government intervention help? Or is it generally a bad idea?
pro_3_1	$700b bailout is consistent with US government interventionism	 $700b bailout is consistent with US government interventionism Robert J. Shiller. "Everybody Calm Down. A Government Hand In the Economy Is as Old as the Republic." Washington Post. 28 Sept. 2008 - "our economy is not a shining example of pure unfettered market forces. It never has been...From the outset, Washington envisioned some government involvement in the commercial system, even as he recognized that commerce should belong to the people...So is the government's bailout a major departure? Hardly. Today's federal involvement offers bailouts as a strictly temporary measure to prevent a system-wide financial calamity. This is entirely in keeping with our basic principles -- as long as the bailout promotes, rather than hinders, financial democracy."  
pro_3_2	Deregulation and free-market ideologies caused US economic crisis	 Deregulation and free-market ideologies caused US economic crisis Robert Kuttner. "Learning from 1929". The American Prospect. 30 Sept. 2008 - "the other lesson [from 1929] was the one "we" forgot -- not to let banks and other financial institutions turn themselves into casinos. It is helpful, in the spirit of Tonto's historic interrogatory to the Lone Ranger -- "What you mean, we?" -- to unpack that "we." The "we" who forgot the lessons included first and foremost Republican ideology -- deregulate everything and let markets run wild; secondly Bush administration regulatory officials who disdained even the regulations on the books; and third, the Wall Street Democrats who were de-regulation's willing enablers."  
pro_3_3	$700b plan is very unfortunate, but is a necessary evil	 $700b plan is very unfortunate, but is a necessary evil "Financial fix better than ugly alternative". Dallas News Editorial. 25 Sept. 2008 - "Taxpayers could soon be gobsmacked by a $700 billion rescue of the American economy. Yes, it's galling, yes, it's humiliating, and, no, it's not the way capitalism is supposed to work...But a government-assisted rescue is unavoidable."
con_3_1	$700b plan and intervention in markets worsens problems	 $700b plan and intervention in markets worsens problems 2008 Republic Party Platform - "We do not support government bailouts of private institutions. Government interference in the markets exacerbates problems in the marketplace and causes the free market to take longer to correct itself. We believe in the free market as the best tool to sustained prosperity and opportunity for all."
con_3_2	Too much regulation, not too little, caused US economic crisis	  Too much regulation, not too little, caused US economic crisis Jeff Jacoby. "Frank's fingerprints are all over the financial fiasco". Boston Globe. 28 Sept. 2008 - "while the mortgage crisis convulsing Wall Street has its share of private-sector culprits they weren't the ones who 'got us into this mess.' Barney Frank's talking points notwithstanding, mortgage lenders didn't wake up one fine day deciding to junk long-held standards of creditworthiness in order to make ill-advised loans to unqualified borrowers. It would be closer to the truth to say they woke up to find the government twisting their arms and demanding that they do so - or else...The roots of this crisis go back to the Carter administration. That was when government officials, egged on by left-wing activists, began accusing mortgage lenders of racism and 'redlining' because urban blacks were being denied mortgages at a higher rate than suburban whites." 
con_3_3	$700b bailout is slippery slope to socialism	 $700b bailout is slippery slope to socialism   Rep. Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas - "I fear that, under this plan, ultimately the federal government will become the guarantor of last resort, and Madam Speaker, that does put us on the slippery slope to socialism."[6]
headline_4	Moral hazard: Does a $700 billion bailout teach the wrong financial lessons?
pro_4_1	Needed bail-out won't undermine lessons of US financial crisis	 Needed bail-out won't undermine lessons of US financial crisis Robert J. Shiller. "Everybody Calm Down. A Government Hand In the Economy Is as Old as the Republic." Washington Post. 28 Sept. 2008 - "By rescuing Wall Street tycoons who succumbed to the lure of an irrationally exuberant housing bubble, the bailouts today do pose something of a moral-hazard problem. But we can more than repair it by defining a new generation of financial contracts, with a continuation of our evolving thinking about moral hazard, reflecting greater enlightenment, greater understanding of human psychology and the means to deal with financial failure."
con_4_1	$700b plan bails-out risk-takers who need to learn lesson	 $700b plan bails-out risk-takers who need to learn lesson Mark Stanford. "A Bailout for All Our Bad Decisions?". Washington Post. 26 Sept. 2008 - "For 200 years, the 'business model' in our country has rested on a simple fact: that while one may reap rewards from taking risks, one should also be prepared to face the consequences of those risks. Some of the proposed actions with regard to the credit market turn that business model on its head -- absolving those who took too much risk, or bought too much house, from the weight of their own choices. If Congress passes the proposed bailout, we will be destined to have far greater problems in time, leaving those who are prudent in their finances to foot the bill for those who are not." 
headline_5	Wallstreet: Will a $700 bailout go toward benefiting greedy capitalists?
pro_5_1	$700b is no Wallstreet giveaway, but a taxpayer investment.	$700b is no Wallstreet giveaway, but a taxpayer investment. The nature of the $700b bailout does not, by its nature, bailout Wallstreet fat-cats. It is not a cash giveaway to Wallstreet banks. It involves, rather, government and taxpayers purchasing mortgage assets. These assets are then owned by the government and taxpayers and can even later be sold for a profit for taxpayers. This is, therefore, obviously not a cash-giveaway to Wallstreet fat-cats.
pro_5_2	$700b plan saves economy and taxpayers, not just Wallstreet	 $700b plan saves economy and taxpayers, not just Wallstreet Kenneth Lewis. "Main Street Needs the Treasury Plan". Wall Street. 26 Sept. 2008 - "This is not about how to bail out Wall Street. This is about saving the U.S. financial system for the benefit of American businesses, consumers and the economy at large. I believe that Mr. Paulson's plan will accomplish this goal. Congress should include provisions it feels are necessary to ensure oversight and accountability. And it should then pass the legislation as soon as possible."
pro_5_3	Executive pay restrictions can be passed along with $700b plan	 Executive pay restrictions can be passed along with $700b plan US Secretary of the Treasury Henry Paulson - "The American people are angry about executive compensation and rightfully so. Many of you cite this as a serious problem and I agree. We must find a way to address this in the legislation, but without undermining the effectiveness of this programme."[7]
con_5_1	$700b plan would bail-out greedy capitalists that created crisis	 $700b plan would bail-out greedy capitalists that created crisis Sen. Byron Dorgan's - "this proposal looks to me like a stampede in the wrong direction…to reward the very people on Wall Street who created this mess, and who pocketed more than $100 billion over the last several years making it."[8]
con_5_2	$700b bailout could go toward excessive pay of greedy CEOs	 $700b bailout could go toward excessive pay of greedy CEOs "Bail-out debate: For and against". BBC. 25 Sept. 2008 - "Bankers' big pay: There are worries about controlling the mega-bucks bosses earn at the very banks being bailed out - given the view that it was Wall Street 'that got us into this mess in the first place'."
con_5_3	$700b plan has been corruptly influenced by Wallstreet	 $700b plan has been corruptly influenced by Wallstreet "Who’s Lobbying Congress On The Bailout?." CBS. 26 Sept. 2008 - "CBS News found 21 former staffers from the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs and House Financial Services Committees are now lobbyists for financial firms. Their job? To lobby those in Congress who will shape the financial bailout. The former staffers now represent hedge funds, private equity firms, investment banks and the failed mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.”
headline_6	Taxpayers: Will the $700 billion bailout help or hurt taxpayers?
pro_6_1	$700b plan may result in few losses or actually profit taxpayers	 $700b plan may result in few losses or actually profit taxpayers Secretary of the Treasury Henry Paulson - "When you look at the money that is spent to purchase assets that will be held and sold, and the price you will get for those assets will be based upon how the economy does, the pace at which the housing markets recover. But the ultimate cost will be well below what was actually spent for the assets."[9]
pro_6_2	$700b plan is better for economy/taxpayers than doing nothing	 $700b plan is better for economy/taxpayers than doing nothing US Secretary of Treasury Hank Paulson - "The ultimate taxpayer protection will be the market stability provided as we remove the troubled assets from our financial system. I am convinced that this bold approach will cost American families far less than the alternative – a continuing series of financial institution failures and frozen credit markets unable to fund everyday needs and economic expansion."[10]
con_6_1	$700b bailout saves Wallstreet by slamming taxpayers	 $700b bailout saves Wallstreet by slamming taxpayers Senator Jim Bunning, Republican of Kentucky, said the plan would "take Wall Street’s pain and spread it to the taxpayers."[12]
con_6_2	Bailout could cost more than $700b if mortgage assets collapse	 Bailout could cost more than $700b if mortgage assets collapse "Bail-out debate: For and against". BBC. 25 Sept. 2008 - "Taxpayer burden: The government plans to buy up mortgage-backed assets at its "maturity" value, which is well above the current market value. If the value of these assets does not recover in the next few years, it will get expensive for taxpayers."
con_6_3	$700b bailout gives treasury blank check	 $700b bailout gives treasury blank check Nomi Prins. "The $700 Billion Bailout Plan's Fine Print". 24 Sept. 2008 - "Treasury Sec. Hank Paulson's $700 billion bailout plan now has a name: the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP. But even as Capitol Hill debates TARP, few seem to have noticed the proposal item that puts taxpayers on the hook for future bailouts. It's in Section 6, and the key phrase is this: 'The Secretary's authority to purchase mortgage-related assets under this Act shall be limited to $700,000,000,000 outstanding at any one time.'
con_6_4	How is $700b bailout affordable when social programs are not?	 How is $700b bailout affordable when social programs are not? Pperlo at The New York Times - "Let me get this straight...we can’t afford social security, Medicare, Medicaid, improvements to our infrastructure...We can afford a war in Iraq/Afghanistan...We can afford to turn Wall Street Executives who ruined our financial system into Welfare Queens." 
headline_7	Public opinion: Does public opinion favor or oppose the bailout? Does it matter?
pro_7_1	Taxpayer opposition to $700b plan is ill-informed; ignore it	 Taxpayer opposition to $700b plan is ill-informed; ignore it Taxpayer opposition to the $700b bailout plan is not well informed. It is based on uninformed opinions regarding the specific circumstances of the financial crisis and the nature of the $700b bailout plan. While opposition needs to be acknowledged, it should not be followed.
pro_7_2	Politicians should not put elections over needed bailout	 Politicians should not put elections over needed bailout Aaron Blake. "Challengers say no to planned bailout — vulnerable incumbents follow suit". The Hill. 29 Sept. 2008 - "the vast majority of vulnerable incumbents voted against the bill, including a slew of freshman Democrats, three of the four House members running for Senate, and almost all vulnerable Republicans." This indicates that politicians placed re-election over more important national interests.
pro_7_3	Leadership crisis is only worsened by not passing $700b plan	 Leadership crisis is only worsened by not passing $700b plan Government may lack credibility among the public. Yet, this public perception has no relation to the actual capacity of government to solve economic problems. The $700 bailout plan provided a good means to solving the economic crisis. It should have been adopted irrespective of public perception. Furthermore, Congressmen that voted against a bailout plan obviously cannot rely on the argument that the people "don't trust us" to justify their "no" vote.   
con_7_1	$700b bailout is unjustified over majority taxpayer opposition	 $700b bailout is unjustified over majority taxpayer opposition A Bloomberg-Los Angeles Times poll of more than 1,400 Americans, found 55 percent of respondents opposed the 700b bailout plan. 33 percent were in favor and 14 percent weren't sure.[13] In a USA Today/Gallup Poll conducted on September 24th just 22% favoured Mr Paulson’s proposal while 56% wanted something different; only 11% preferred that no action be taken.[14] It is inappropriate for Congress to pass legislation over the opposition of the taxpayers they represent.
con_7_2	Government has no credibility to solve economic crisis	 Government has no credibility to solve economic crisis "We Need Another Choice". Daily Kos. 23 Sep. 2008 - "The Bush administration hasn't done much in the last eight years to inspire confidence in their ability to handle this -- the concern is that it will function as a corporate giveaway of historic proportions, but in the end do nothing for the economy except propping it up a little while longer."
headline_8	Powers: Does the $700b bailout give reasonable power to US Treasury?
pro_8_1	$700b bailout includes oversight/transparency	 $700b bailout includes oversight/transparency Roy Blunt (R-MO) - "We believe that all of the transparency you could possibly hope to have in a government program is here. All of the oversight is here. In fact, if anything, we may have overdone the oversight."[15]
pro_8_2	Financial crisis requires and justifies strong executive powers.	Financial crisis requires and justifies strong executive powers. The Constitution of the United States is designed to allow Congress to give major power to the Executive branch, in this case the Department of Treasury, in order to respond quickly and decisively to crises. The 2008 financial crisis is a good example of a situation in which Congress is justified in granting the Secretary of the Treasury with $700 billion to forestall what some fear could be the next Great Depression. This is appropriate and Constitutional, not least because it is necessary in the preservation of the Union. 
con_8_1	$700b plan gives unconstitutionally broad power to Treasury	 $700b plan gives unconstitutionally broad power to Treasury Carolyn Lochhead. "$700 billion buys much skepticism in Congress. San Francisco Chronicle. 24 Sept. 2008 - "Chairman Chris Dodd, D-Conn., called the Paulson plan 'stunning and unprecedented in its scope and lack of detail,' saying the Constitution is at risk along with the economy."
con_8_2	Paulson Plan does not allow for enough Congressional oversight	 Paulson Plan does not allow for enough Congressional oversight Paul Krugman. "Good ideas and lies". The Conscience of a Liberal. 23 Sept. 2008. - "the proposal actually did, of course, was explicitly rule out any oversight, plus grant immunity from future review: 'Sec. 8. Review. Decisions by the Secretary pursuant to the authority of this Act are non-reviewable and committed to agency discretion, and may not be reviewed by any court of law or any administrative agency.'"
headline_9	Alternatives: How does the plan compare with the alternatives?
pro_9_1	Paulson Plan justified without warrants; taxpayers still protected	 Paulson Plan justified without warrants; taxpayers still protected Greg Mankiw. "A Defense of the Paulson Plan". Greg Mankiw Blog. 25 Sept. 2008 - "2. 'Taxpayers will be better off if Treasury gets warrants.'...This is essentially the assertion made in David Leonhart's column in the NY Times on Wednesday. And it again illustrates that we would all be better off if high schools taught the Modigliani-Miller theorem. MM implies that the price of the asset (again,assuming the auction gets it right) will adjust to offset the value of any warrants Treasury receives. In this case of a reverse auction, imagine that the price is set at $10. If Treasury instead demands a warrant for future gains of some sort, then the price will rise in the expected amount of the warrant -- say that's $2. Then the price Treasury pays for the asset will be $12. Some people might prefer to get $12 in cash and give up a warrant worth $2 in expected value. Fine, that's a choice to be made. But the assertion that somehow warrants are needed is simply wrong."
con_9_1	Government should buy stock in banks, not just bail them out	 Government should buy stock in banks, not just bail them out "The $700+ Billion Bailout--Posner". The Becker Posner Blog. 25 Sept. 2008 - "A more palatable approach would be for the government to drive a Warren Buffett style hard bargain, in which, rather than buying anything from banks, the government would invest in them in a form, such as purchase of newly issued preferred stock, or bonds with a long maturity, that would augment the banks' capital and thus enable banks to make more loans. That would avoid conferring a windfall on the banks by overpaying them for their bad securities; no one thinks Buffett is conferring a windfall on Goldman Sachs. After the industry was back on its feet, the government could sell the bank stocks or bonds that it had acquired."
con_9_2	Mortgages should be propped up from bottom-up, not top-down	 Mortgages should be propped up from bottom-up, not top-down 
con_9_3	Money supply can increase liquidity, solve crisis	 Money supply can increase liquidity, solve crisis 
con_9_4	Government can cut taxes to increase liquidity	 Government can cut taxes to increase liquidity 
