title	Reforestation as a solution to global warming
question	Should reforestation be a central strategy in combating climate change?
headline_1	Atmospheric C02: Can reforestation help cut atmospheric C02 levels?
pro_1_1	Reforestation sequesters C02 and helps reverse global warming	 Reforestation sequesters C02 and helps reverse global warming Adrian Higgins. "A New Leaf on Life". Washington Post. 8 May 2008 - "According to a neat calculator on the Web site of Casey Trees, a fair-size white oak tree with an 18-inch-diameter trunk would reduce atmospheric carbon dioxide by 622 pounds per year. A mature apple tree would lower carbon dioxide by more than 300 pounds. Even the weedy tree of heaven would store ("sequester," in eco parlance) 391 pounds once it reached a trunk diameter of 12 inches.
pro_1_2	Reforestation can immediately reduce atmospheric greenhouse gases	 Reforestation can immediately reduce atmospheric greenhouse gases Reforestation leads to the immediate growth of trees, and, therefore, the immediate reduction of greenhouse gases. "Carbon sinks won't solve global warming". Planet Ark. 9 Jul. 2001 - "The primary benefit of land carbon sinks is that they can be effective immediately." 
pro_1_3	Reforestation, while not a silver bullet, can help solve global warming	 Reforestation, while not a silver bullet, can help solve global warming American Forests executive director, Deborah Gangloff - "We aren't going to solve global warming by planting trees, but we can take up a lot of carbon."[2] 
con_1_1	Reforestation would have a negligible impact on global warming	 Reforestation would have a negligible impact on global warming Andrea Thompson. "Trees Won't Fix Global Warming". Live Science. 8 Aug. 2007 - "The plan to use trees as a way to suck up and store the extra carbon dioxide emitted into Earth's atmosphere to combat global warming isn't such a hot idea, new research indicates...Scientists at Duke University bathed plots of North Carolina pine trees in extra carbon dioxide every day for 10 years and found that while the trees grew more tissue, only the trees that received the most water and nutrients stored enough carbon dioxide to offset the effects of global warming." 
con_1_2	Reforestation can result in release of greenhouse gas Methane	 Reforestation can result in release of greenhouse gas Methane "Carbon sinks won't solve global warming". Planet Ark. 9 Jul. 2001 - "The scientists [of Britain's Royal Society] also warned that in the future carbon sinks could become a source of CO2. They could release greenhouse gases, such as methane."
con_1_3	Increasing droughts impairs carbon sequestration by trees	 Increasing droughts impairs carbon sequestration by trees "Trees Won't Fix Global Warming". Climate Progress - "One researcher [of a Duke University Study] noted, 'If water availability decreases at the same time that carbon dioxide increases, then we might not have a net gain in carbon sequestration.' Well, climate change is projected to decrease water availability in many parts of the world, including the American West. If water availability decreases at the same time that carbon dioxide increases, then we might not have a net gain in carbon sequestration."
con_1_4	Trees only absorb C02 during their growth	 Trees only absorb C02 during their growth Harald Franzen. "Planting Trees Won't Save the Climate". Scientific American. 15 Nov. 2000 - "Trees only absorb large quantities of carbon during their growth, so once they are fully grown--in other words, when the reforestation is complete--they will not be able to serve as CO2 sinks."
con_1_5	Reforestation can increase Earth's Albedo and global warming	 Reforestation can increase Earth's Albedo and global warming Forests are dark and absorb significant sun energy (increasing albedo), trapping heat that would otherwise be reflected by lighter-colored surfaces such as ice. Reforestation, therefore, can worsen global warming.
headline_2	Economics: Is reforestation economical and feasible?
pro_2_1	Reforestation is a cost-effective solution to global warming	 Reforestation is a cost-effective solution to global warming Robert N. Stavins. "The cost of U.S. forest-based carbon sequestration". Pew Center on Climate Change. January 2005 - "Their conclusions are striking. Estimated costs for sequestering up to 500 million tons of carbon per year—an amount that would offset up to one-third of current annual U.S. carbon emissions—range from $30 to $90 per ton. On a per-ton basis, these costs are comparable to those estimated for other climate change mitigation options such as fuel switching or energy efficiency."
pro_2_2	Enough land for reforestation to be a viable solution	 Enough land for reforestation to be a viable solution Robert N. Stavins. "The cost of U.S. forest-based carbon sequestration". Pew Center on Climate Change. January 2005 - "Much of the current interest in carbon sequestration has been prompted by suggestions that sufficient lands are available to use sequestration for mitigating significant shares of annual CO2 emissions, and related claims that this approach provides a relatively inexpensive means of addressing climate change."
pro_2_3	Aerial reforestation cuts costs of reforestation	 Aerial reforestation cuts costs of reforestation Matthew McDermott. "Can Aerial Reforestation Help Slow Climate Change?". Tree Hugger. 22 Aug. 2008 - "Thousand Of Seed-Containing Bomblets Dropped to Reforest Mangrove Forest Since it’s too labor intensive and too slow to reforest large areas of land by hand, foot, shovel and trowel, why not try to use aircraft to drop thousands of small bomblets containing a tree seed (in the experiment in the show, mangrove seeds) and some soil over deforested areas? It would be much quicker than manual reforestation and the principle could be applied to pretty much any type of forest in the world."
pro_2_4	Reforestation creates financial interest in sustaining forests	 Reforestation creates financial interest in sustaining forests "Carbon sinks won't solve global warming". Planet Ark. 9 Jul. 2001 - "The primary benefit of land carbon sinks is that they can be effective immediately and provide a financial incentive for the preservation and sustainable use of forests and agriculture land."
con_2_1	Reforestation less cost-effective than reducing emissions	 Reforestation less cost-effective than reducing emissions Professor John Shepherd, director of Britain's Tyndall Centre for Climate Research, said in 2001, "Our view is that the argument is being diverted into what is really a rather unproductive area and people should get back to talking about carbon emission reductions at source by use of renewable (fuels) and whatever else they think is necessary."[3]
con_2_2	Insufficient nitrogen levels will limit plant growth	 Insufficient nitrogen levels will limit plant growth Catherine Brahic. "Planting trees 'will not cancel out climate change'". Climate Ark News. 13 Apr. 2006 - "Attempts to limit climate change by planting trees to absorb carbon dioxide from the atmosphere could be futile, according to two studies published this week.
