title	Geoengineering, iron fertilization of algae blooms
question	Should iron fertilization of algae blooms be part of plans to combat global warming?
headline_1	Global warming: Can iron fertilization help significantly combat global warming?
pro_1_1	Iron fertilization can dramatically reduce C02, combat global warming	 Iron fertilization can dramatically reduce C02, combat global warming John Martin, former director of the Moss Landing Marine Laboratory, said in 1988, "Give me half a tanker of iron, and I’ll give you an ice age". This famous statement has highlighted the power of iron fertilization in spawning massive algae blooms to draw large quantities of C02 from the atmosphere, in the process of photosynthesis, reducing the greenhouse gas effect and helping cool the planet. 
pro_1_2	Iron fertilization reverses global warming; other solutions only slow it.	Iron fertilization reverses global warming; other solutions only slow it. All the main solutions to global warming entail cutting greenhouse gas emissions from future energy production. Yet, this does not reduce the amount of C02 currently in the atmosphere, nor does it promise to end C02 emissions any time soon. And, yet, global warming is occurring now from the existing quantities of C02 in the atmosphere. In other words, all plans to cut future emissions will not help actually reverse the current trajectory of global warming. The only real solution is to attempt to directly remove greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. Iron fertilization and algae blooms offer this kind of real solution to global warming, actually helping reverse it.
pro_1_3	Irreversible climate change makes geoengineering unavoidable.	Irreversible climate change makes geoengineering unavoidable. There is a good chance that global warming is irreversible. Global warming is already occurring and there are no plans to reduce greenhouse gases that are already in the atmosphere. Greenhouse gas levels will continue to rise, despite reductions in new emissions. Geoengineering, therefore, is the likely last resort.
pro_1_4	Algae need only sequester C02 for roughly a century.	Algae need only sequester C02 for roughly a century. While ocean science does traditionally define "sequestration" in terms of sea floor sediment that is isolated from the atmosphere for millions of years, modern climate scientists and Kyoto Protocol policy makers, however, define sequestration in much shorter time frames. They recognize trees and even grasslands, for instance, as important carbon sinks. Forest biomass only sequesters carbon for decades, but carbon that sinks below the marine thermocline (100~200 meters) is effectively removed from the atmosphere for hundreds or thousands of years, whether it is remineralized or not. Since deep ocean currents take so long to resurface, their carbon content is effectively "sequestered" by any terrestrial criterion in use today.
pro_1_5	Trials finding low results from carbon sequestration were faulty	 Trials finding low results from carbon sequestration were faulty The studies concluding that iron fertilization lead to low levels of carbon sequestration suffered from numerous flaws: Timing - none of the ocean trials had enough boat time to monitor their blooms for more than 27 days, while blooms generally last 60~90 days; Scale - most trials used less than 1000 kg of iron and thus created small blooms that were quickly devoured by opportunistic zooplankton, krill and fish; Academic conservatism - with limited data sets, scientists have not been willing to (understandably) extrapolate upon their findings.
pro_1_6	Best practices in iron fertilization can ensure effectiveness	 Best practices in iron fertilization can ensure effectiveness 
con_1_1	Algae-sequestered carbon may not remain sequestered for long	 Algae-sequestered carbon may not remain sequestered for long "Fertilize the Ocean with Iron to Control Global Warming, Scientists Debate". Science Mode. 31 Mar. 2008 - "Although fertilization can stimulate the growth of plankton and draw down atmospheric carbon dioxide, scientists do not know whether it would be effective in permanently keeping the carbon dioxide sequestered in the oceans." 
con_1_2	Algae blooms do not sequester much carbon	 Algae blooms do not sequester much carbon "A scientific critique of oceanic iron fertilization as a climate change mitigation strategy". Greenpeace Research Laboratories. September 2007 - "With the scientific discovery that phytoplankton growth can be stimulated by the addition of iron to HNLC waters, some have proposed that the ‘biological pump’ could be enhanced by fertilizing the oceans with iron, as a way of drawing down more carbon dioxide from the atmosphere into the oceans and, in so doing, helping mitigate climate change. However, such proposals are founded on an incomplete understanding and highly simplified interpretation of current scientific knowledge. They have not taken properly into account the results of the 12 mesoscale iron enrichment scientific studies carried out to date which suggest that the amount of carbon sequestered in this way would be very small, nor the fundamental influence of hydrodynamics and large uncertainties and indeterminacies in ecosystem response which those studies highlight."
con_1_3	Iron-fertilization harms downstream algae, C02 sequestration	 Iron-fertilization harms "downstream" algae, C02 sequestration "Fertilizing the Ocean with Iron". Woods Hole Oceanic Institute. 7 Sep. 2007 - "Beyond the inefficiency of carbon sequestration, iron fertilization would likely cause other changes “downstream” of the ocean patches where iron was added. The huge green phytoplankton blooms would take up not just iron but other nutrients, too—nitrate, phosphate, and silica—essentially depleting nearby waters of the building blocks needed for plankton growth. 
con_1_4	Iron-fertilized algae blooms may release some greenhouse gases	 Iron-fertilized algae blooms may release some greenhouse gases "A scientific critique of oceanic iron fertilization as a climate change mitigation strategy". Greenpeace Research Laboratories. September 2007 - "There is a risk that iron fertilization could result in increased production of nitrous oxide, a greenhouse gas far more powerful than carbon dioxide. It is of great concern that one modelling study predicted that any benefits of carbon sequestration by commercial iron fertilization could be outweighed by nitrous oxide production. In two mesoscale studies which tested for the production of nitrous oxide, one found a small but significant increase in nitrous oxide while the other did not detect the gas."
headline_2	Economics/feasibility: Is iron fertilization economical/feasible?
pro_2_1	A global iron fertilization plan would cost only around $20 billion.	A global iron fertilization plan would cost only around $20 billion. Some ocean trials did indeed report remarkable results. According to IronEx II reports, their thousand kilogram iron contribution to the equatorial Pacific generated a carbonaceous biomass equivalent to one hundred full-grown redwoods within the first two weeks. Researchers on Wegener Institute's 2004 Eifex experiment recorded carbon dioxide to iron fixation ratios of nearly 300,000 to 1. Current estimates of the amount of iron required to restore all the lost plankton and sequester 3 gigatons/year of CO2 range widely, from approximately two hundred thousand tons/year to over 4 million tons/year. Even in the latter worst case scenario, this only represents about 16 supertanker loads of iron and a projected cost of less than €20 billion ($27 Billion). Considering EU penalties for Kyoto non-compliance will reach €100/ton CO2e ($135/ton CO2e) in 2010 and the annual value of the global carbon credit market is projected to exceed €1 trillion by 2012, even the most conservative estimate still portrays a very feasible and inexpensive strategy to offset half of all industrial emissions.
con_2_1	Iron fertilization may require an impractical amount of iron	 Iron fertilization may require an impractical amount of iron "Iron Fertilization Of Oceans: A Real Option For Carbon Dioxide Reduction?" Science Daily. 10 June 2007 - "Twelve oceanographic expeditions were carried out between 1993 and 2005 is the North Pacific, the Equatorial Pacific and the Southern Ocean to test the iron fertilization hypothesis. However, as pointed out by Hein de Baar, from the Netherlands Institut voor Onderzoek der Zee (NIOZ, Texel, The Netherlands), today after all those experiments we know that they are many losses and that this manipulation is not a real efficient way to capture and store CO2 into the deep ocean. Much more iron is needed that had originally been suggested for algae to bring down a certain amount of CO2 from the atmosphere."
con_2_2	Algae bloom solutions require fertilizing too much ocean area	 Algae bloom solutions require fertilizing too much ocean area "A scientific critique of oceanic iron fertilization as a climate change mitigation strategy". Greenpeace Research Laboratories. September 2007 - "such schemes would be virtually impossible to carry out in practice because of the colossal areas that would have to be fertilized to result in significant atmospheric carbon removal." 
con_2_3	Verifying carbon sequestered from algae is impossible	 Verifying carbon sequestered from algae is impossible "A scientific critique of oceanic iron fertilization as a climate change mitigation strategy". Greenpeace Research Laboratories. September 2007 - "Verifying the quantity of carbon sequestered from iron fertilization is also likely to be difficult (if not impossible) because of the large spatial and temporal scales involved."
con_2_4	Monitoring iron-fertilized algae blooms globally would be costly	 Monitoring iron-fertilized algae blooms globally would be costly 
headline_3	Ocean ecosystems: Does iron fertilization preserve ocean ecosystems?
pro_3_1	Ecosystem changes caused by algae are not bad ones	 Ecosystem changes caused by algae are not "bad" ones Margaret Leinen PhD, Kevin Whilden, and Dan Whaley. "A Response to Concerns about Ocean Iron Fertilization Raised by Greenpeace". Climos, Inc. 15 May 2008 - "While it is true that OIF produces ecological changes, as we will show, there is no a priori evidence from literature that OIF experiments projects might result in widespread deleterious ecological changes. The preponderance of evidence suggests that OIF experimentation and study, even if done at scales of 200 x 200 km, will not harm ecosystems." 
pro_3_2	Global warming benefits of algae blooms outweigh ecosystem costs.	Global warming benefits of algae blooms outweigh ecosystem costs. Iron fertilization main be a central solution to the greatest modern environmental crisis; global warming. While it may cause some other problems in ocean ecosystems, these problems are outweighed by the environmental priority of combating global warming.  
pro_3_3	Algae blooms last for a short time; no long-term damage.	Algae blooms last for a short time; no long-term damage. Algae blooms last between 90 and 120 days. They never take root in an ocean ecosystem, so cannot permanently and dramatically alter or harm an ecosystem. 
pro_3_4	Growing algae blooms can help feed and revive fisheries.	Growing algae blooms can help feed and revive fisheries. Algae are food for fish such as krill, which are food for larger fish, which are food for even larger fish. In this way, algae blooms can help feed and grow fisheries and cetacean populations. This is a compelling human interests, given the extent to which fisheries have been depleted in the last century. 
con_3_1	Iron-fertilization favors some phytoplankton, destabilizing ecosystems	 Iron-fertilization favors some phytoplankton, destabilizing ecosystems Depending upon the composition and timing of delivery, iron infusions could preferentially favor certain species and alter surface ecosystems to unknown effect. Population explosions of jellyfish, disturbance of the food chain with a huge impact on whale populations or fisheries are cited as potential dangers.
con_3_2	Iron-fertilized algae blooms deplete nutrients in ecosystems	 Iron-fertilized algae blooms deplete nutrients in ecosystems "A scientific critique of oceanic iron fertilization as a climate change mitigation strategy". Greenpeace Research Laboratories. September 2007 - "Iron fertilization results in other essential nutrients, such as nitrates, phosphates ad silicates, being used up as the phytoplankton bloom progresses. Consequently, this could result in a reduction of these nutrients down-current from an iron- fertilized area. In turn, a lack of nutrients would cause a negative impact on phytoplankton down-current resulting in a reduction in overall biological productivity. This would be likely to have a knock-on negative impact on all other marine life because phytoplankton underpin the marine food web. Indeed, because of this phenomenon, modeling studies have predicted that commercial-scale iron fertilization of the oceans could have a significant detrimental impact on important fisheries."
con_3_3	Iron-fertilized algae blooms can deplete marine oxygen levels	 Iron-fertilized algae blooms can deplete marine oxygen levels Iron fertilization and algae blooms can increase particulate organic export and remineralization, reducing oxygen levels, which negatively impacts many marine organisms. 
headline_4	Restoring phytoplankton? Is phytoplankton needing restoration?
pro_4_1	Iron fertilization would revive depleted phytoplankton populations.	Iron fertilization would revive depleted phytoplankton populations. Iron fertilization would help to reverse what some believe to be a decline in phytoplankton. One study (Gregg and Conkright, 2002) reported a decline in ocean phytoplankton productivity between the period 1979–1986 and 1997–2000. If phytoplankton populations are down by natural standards, there should be not environmental argument against helping these populations rebuild. And, it could be argued that the decline of these phytoplankton are partly responsible for global warming, since it would reduce the capture of C02 in the process of photosynthesis.
pro_4_2	Global warming kills algae, worsens warming; iron fertilization helps	 Global warming kills algae, worsens warming; iron fertilization helps Steve Connor. "Warmer Seas Will Wipe Out Plankton". 20 The Independent. January 2006 - "The microscopic plants that underpin all life in the oceans are likely to be destroyed by global warming, a study has found...Scientists have discovered a way that the vital plankton of the oceans can be starved of nutrients as a result of the seas getting warmer. They believe the findings have catastrophic implications for the entire marine habitat, which ultimately relies on plankton at the base of the food chain."
con_4_1	Phytoplankton populations have increased; no need for iron fertilization.	Phytoplankton populations have increased; no need for iron fertilization. One study (Antoine et al., 2005) found a 22% increase of phytoplankton populations between 1979–1986 and 1998–2002. Gregg et al. 2005 also reported a recent increase in phytoplankton. If phytoplankton are actually up compared to natural averages, it cannot be argued that iron fertilization can help re-stabilize the natural size of phytoplankton populations. In fact, iron fertilization would only accentuate the problem of currently over-sized phytoplankton populations. 
con_4_2	Global warming grows phytoplankton; growing more is reckless	 Global warming grows phytoplankton; growing more is reckless Jef Huisman and Ben Sommeijer. "Global Warming could Destabilize Plankton in Oceans" - "Global warming of the surface layers of the oceans reduces the upward transport of nutrients. Computer simulations predict that plankton growth will become unstable when the supply of nutrients is reduced. This may have a negative impact on the food chains of the oceans and on uptake of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide into the oceans. Scientists of the Universiteit van Amsterdam and CWI (the Netherlands) and the University of Hawaii (USA) presented their results in Nature of 19 January 2006."
headline_5	Red tides: Does iron fertilization risk stimulating harmful red tides?
pro_5_1	Deep sea iron fertilization would not grow coastal red tides.	Deep sea iron fertilization would not grow coastal red tides. Red tides and other harmful algal blooms are largely coastal phenomena and primarily affect creatures that eat contaminated coastal shellfish. Iron stimulated plankton blooms only work in the deep oceans where iron deficiency is the problem. Most coastal waters are replete with iron and adding more has no effect. Since all phytoplankton blooms last only 90~120 days at most, in the open ocean fertilized patches of any species will dissipate long before reaching any land.
pro_5_2	Most algae is harmless and understood; red tides can be avoided.	Most algae is harmless and understood; red tides can be avoided. Most algae is harmless. All the major types of algae, harmful and innocuous, are well understood. This makes it fairly easy to avoid fertilizing harmful algae and growing red tides. 
con_5_1	Some plankton species cause red tides and other toxic phenomena.	Some plankton species cause red tides and other toxic phenomena. How do we know what kind of plankton will bloom in these events? What will prevent toxic species from poisoning lagoons, tide pools and other sensitive ecosystems along our coasts? Highly increased and intensified Red Tide Blooms have been wreaking havoc on the west coast of Florida for the last ten years. The argument that red tide blooms cause no harm is ridiculous. Once the chain of a HAB gets started, no one knows how to end it. The Red Tide Bloom in Maine over the last three years is testament to this. Even though the water is too cold to be very favorable to red tide (K. Brevis), these Red Tide Blooms have flourished. When even harmless species of plankton die they decompose and this brings about a very bad situation like the giant and growing dead zone in the Gulf of Mexico.[
headline_6	Deep water oxygen depletion: Is this a consequence of algae blooms?
pro_6_1	Deep water dieoffs have not been reported after natural algae blooms.	Deep water dieoffs have not been reported after natural algae blooms. The largest plankton replenishment projects now being proposed are less than 10% the size of most natural wind-fed blooms. In the wake of major dust storms, many extremely vast natural blooms have been studied since the beginning of the 20th century and no such deep water dieoffs have ever been reported.
con_6_1	Sinking organic blooms can render the deep sea anoxic.	Sinking organic blooms can render the deep sea anoxic. When organic bloom detritus sinks into the abyss, a significant fraction will be devoured by bacteria, other microorganisms and deep sea animals which also consume oxygen. A large bloom could, therefore, render certain regions of the sea deep beneath it anoxic and threaten other benthic species.
headline_7	Environmental justice: Does iron fertilization uphold environmental justice?
pro_7_1	If natural iron fertilization occurs, it is OK for humans to do it	 If natural iron fertilization occurs, it is OK for humans to do it Nature has caused massive-scale iron fertilizations in the past. One example is sand storms in northern Africa blowing iron into the Atlantic and spurring algae blooms. If this occurs naturally, is it really wrong for humans to intentionally stimulate the process? No.
pro_7_2	Avoiding iron fertilization is greatest environmental injustice.	Avoiding iron fertilization is greatest environmental injustice. It is important to recognize that global warming is the greatest environmental crisis in modern times. It is necessary, therefore, to prioritize solutions to this crisis, and to weigh the benefits of solving the crisis over any other incidental environmental costs.
pro_7_3	Humans are already changing Earth; how can geoengineering be wrong?	Humans are already changing Earth; how can geoengineering be wrong? Humans have been changing and manipulating the planet for years, in both positive and negative ways. Iron-fertilization of algae blooms is consistent with this trend and, subsequently, principles of environmental justice.
con_7_1	Tampering with the environment to solve global warming is wrong.	Tampering with the environment to solve global warming is wrong. Humans have for too long tampered with the environment. We have felt at liberty to burn fossil fuels and release millions of tonnes of carbon into the atmosphere. Now, we should not again tamper with the environment as a means of solving an environmental crisis that we created: global warming.   
headline_8	Precautionary principle: Is iron fertilization consistent with this principle?
pro_8_1	Precautionary principle favors solving global warming.	Precautionary principle favors solving global warming. Global warming is the principle risk facing planet Earth, ecosystems around the world, as well as human civilization. The greatest risk in modern times, therefore, is not being able to find a solution to global warming. While there are some risks involved with iron fertilization, the greater risk is not pursuing it, when we know there is a very good chance that it will make a major contribution to combating global warming. The precautionary principle would have us error on the side of precaution toward global warming, and pursuing all logical strategies toward solving the crisis. 
con_8_1	Iron fertilization is unproven, violating precautionary principle.	Iron fertilization is unproven, violating precautionary principle. We do not know the possible side-effects of large-scale iron fertilization. Not enough research has been done. We should not risk iron fertilization on the scale needed to affect global CO2 levels or animal populations. Creating blooms in naturally iron-poor areas of the ocean is like watering the desert: you are completely changing one type of ecosystem into another.
