title	Geoengineering, solar shading
question	Should solar shading be part of plans to reverse global climate change?
headline_1	Global warming crisis: Is solar shading a reasonable solution?
pro_1_1	Solar shading can effectively and rapidly reverse global warming	 Solar shading can effectively and rapidly reverse global warming "Crazy Solar Shield Not 100% Crazy". Tree Hugger. - "Global Warming is not caused by greenhouse gases themselves but by the solar energy that they trap on Earth. If we can't reduce the amount of greenhouse gases present in the atmosphere fast enough, we are faced with a problem. But what if we could influence the other variable: the amount of solar energy that gets to the Earth?"  
pro_1_2	Solar shield reverses global warming; emissions reductions do not	 Solar shield reverses global warming; emissions reductions do not  Robert Roy Britt. "No Stopping it Now: Seas to Rise 4 Inches or More this Century". LiveScience. 17 Mar. 2005 - "Even if all industrial pollution and auto emissions suddenly ceased today, Earth's climate will warm at least 1 degree by the year 2100 and seas will rise 4 inches (11 centimeters), according to a new study...The warming is likely to continue through 2400, another study forecasts...The worst-case scenario projects the global average temperature rising 6.3 degrees Fahrenheit within this century and the sea level climbing a foot or more..."Many people don't realize we are committed right now to a significant amount of global warming and sea level rise because of the greenhouse gases we have already put into the atmosphere," said Gerald Meehl, who led the study out of the National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR)."
pro_1_3	Solar shading is a just response to irreversible global warming	 Solar shading is a just response to irreversible global warming Catherine Brahic. "Solar shield could be quick fix for global warming". New Scientist. 5 June 2007 - "Lesser of two evils?...Hansen's study suggests that only moderate additional warming is likely to trigger the disintegration of the west Antarctic and Arctic ice sheets - events which would be near-impossible to reverse..."If this is the case, then I am not clear on what the 'greenest' path is," says Caldeira. "Is it better to let the Greenland ice sheet collapse and let the polar bears drown their way to extinction, or to spray some sulphur particles in the stratosphere?""
pro_1_4	Global shading offers a back-up plan to cutting emissions	 Global shading offers a back-up plan to cutting emissions 
pro_1_5	Solar shading need not replace clean energy	 Solar shading need not "replace" clean energy University of Arizona astronomer Roger Angel, who is studying global warming: "The sunshade is no substitute for developing renewable energy, the only permanent solution." In general, only misperceptions can lead to conclusions that sunshades are "replacing" approaches to cutting emissions. 
pro_1_6	Solar shading stops global warming and buys time to cut emissions.	Solar shading stops global warming and buys time to cut emissions. 
con_1_1	Solar shading might cool tropics, but not high latitudes and poles	 Solar shading might cool tropics, but not high latitudes and poles "Earth sunshade would not rewind the climate". New Scientist. 28 May 2008 - "Dan Lunt of the University of Bristol, UK, and colleagues...found that Earth under a sunshade would not simply revert to its pre-industrial climate. Instead the tropics would be cooler than pre-industrial times by 1.5 °C, while high latitudes would be warmer by 1.5 °C, leading to less sea ice"
con_1_2	Geoengineering is just as likely to damage the environment as help	 Geoengineering is just as likely to damage the environment as help Ken Caldeira at the Carnegie Institution of Washington told New Scientist: "Personally, as a citizen not a scientist, I don't like geo-engineering because of the high environmental risk. It's toying with poorly understood complex systems. I think the Earth's system is so complicated that our interfering with it is very likely to screw things up and very unlikely to improve things. And this is the only planet we have."[1]
con_1_3	Geoengineering concepts dampen public will to cut emissions	 Geoengineering concepts dampen public will to cut emissions David Keith from the University of Calgary in Canada: "The knowledge that we maybe could engineer our way out of climate problems inevitably lessens the political will to begin reducing carbon dioxide emissions."[2]
con_1_4	Solar shading reduces sunlight energy available to solar panels	 Solar shading reduces sunlight energy available to solar panels By reducing the amount of sunlight that enters the atmosphere, solar shading decreasing the amount of energy available to solar energy cells. This is cause for concern because solar energy is a major source of 0-emission power, and so a significant solution to the global warming crisis. To diminish this solution is to weaken the fight against global warming. 
con_1_5	Discontinuing solar shading would result in rapid warming	 Discontinuing solar shading would result in rapid warming Alan Robock. "20 reasons why geoengineering may be a bad idea". Bulletin of the Atomic Scientist. 2008: "10. Rapid warming if deployment stops. A technological, societal, or political crisis could halt a project of stratospheric aerosol injection in mid- deployment. Such an abrupt shift would result in rapid climate warming, which would produce much more stress on society and ecosystems than gradual global warming."
headline_2	Geoengineering ethics: Is geoengineering ethical?
pro_2_1	Humans already change climate; geoengineering not new	 Humans already change climate; geoengineering not new Bryan Wassh. "6. Geoengineering". Time, What's Next in 2008: "the truth is, we're already performing an unauthorized experiment on our climate by adding billions of tons of man-made carbon dioxide to the atmosphere. Unless the geopolitics of global warming change soon, the Hail Mary pass of geoengineering might become our best shot." 
pro_2_2	Irreversible climate change makes geoengineering unavoidable.	Irreversible climate change makes geoengineering unavoidable. It is impossible for humans to avoid geoengineering in the future. The earth's climate has always shifted dramatically throughout its history. The Earth will, for instance, enter another ice age fairly soon. Should we, then, just allow this to happen? No, particularly if it means sacrificing millions of human lives and civilization as we know it. We should make the world work for us, not allow it to obliterate us. And, if we assume geoengineering is enevitable, then there is no moral boundary to doing it now, when global warming poses the threat that does to human civilization. 
pro_2_3	Arguments against geoengineering are too elusive	 Arguments against geoengineering are too elusive Ken Caldeira at the Carnegie Institution of Washington: "We have been trying to pinpoint the one really bad thing that argues against geoengineering the climate. But it is really hard to find."[3]
pro_2_4	Geoengineering has gained credibility in scientific communities	 Geoengineering has gained credibility in scientific communities Ken Caldeira of the Carnegie Institution for Science at Stanford University: "Over the past couple of years, it's gone from an outsider thing to something that is increasingly discussed."
con_2_1	Unethical to change planet w/o universal approval	 Unethical to change planet w/o universal approval  Richard Somerville, a climate researcher at Scripps Institution of Oceanography in California: "I should say right up front, I am not at all in favour of geoengineering. I think it's inherently unethical. I don't see how you decide on the basis of all humanity how to change the planet."[4]
con_2_2	Once geoengineering begins, there is no going back	 Once geoengineering begins, there is no going back There are ethical questions of whether we commit children to a planet that requires constant tinkering. Bryan Wassh. "6. Geoengineering". Time, What's Next in 2008.: "We'd have to keep geoengineering indefinitely to balance out continued greenhouse-gas emissions."
con_2_3	Private control of geoengineering projects has great risks	 Private control of geoengineering projects has great risks Alan Robock. "20 reasons why geoengineering may be a bad idea". Bulletin of the Atomic Scientist. 2008: "15. Commercial control of technology. Who would end up controlling geoengineering systems? Governments? Private companies holding patents on proprietary technology? And whose benefit would they have at heart? These systems could pose issues analogous to those raised by pharmaceutical companies and energy conglomerates whose products ostensibly serve the public, but who often value shareholder profits over the public good."
con_2_4	Geoengineering technologies risk being used for military purposes	 Geoengineering technologies risk being used for military purposes 
con_2_5	Who gets to decide what temperature and climate is ideal?	 Who gets to decide what temperature and climate is ideal? 
headline_3	Side-effects: Are there significant environmental side effects from solar shading?
pro_3_1	Solar shields can be adjusted according to effects	 Solar shields can be adjusted according to effects Russel Dovery. "Supervillainy: Astroengineering Global Warming". Kuro5hin. 8 Apr. 2005: "The reduction in incoming sunlight would be 0.5 to 1%, enough to neatly stop global warming and keep temperatures stable. It would give us time to stabilise our emissions, then start the long process of filtering greenhouse gases back out of the atmosphere and storing them somewhere. The Lens can of course be adjusted, so as greenhouse gas levels dropped the diffusion effect would be reduced as well, until we reached a point where the Lens was no longer required and could be safely dismantled, or more playfully used to frighten the hell out of everyone in a medium-sized nation with an appropriate orbital insertion to enter the Earth's atmosphere flat-on."
con_3_1	Solar shading would reduce sunlight received by plants	 Solar shading would reduce sunlight received by plants Solar shading would reduce the amount of sun light that hits the surface of the earth. This would reduce the amount of sunlight that plants can use as energy in the process of photosynthesis, which may damage individual plants and have a negative effect on ecosystems.
con_3_2	Solar shading will decrease surface evaporation/rain.	Solar shading will decrease surface evaporation/rain. Solar shading will reduce the amount of sunlight that hits bodies of water, which  will reduce precipitation in some places. 
con_3_3	Solar shading may increase Eurasian 'winter warming'.	Solar shading may increase Eurasian 'winter warming'. This is related to shifts in the wind patterns and is seen in the aftermath of volcanoes.
headline_4	Space shield: Is a space-based sun-shield a good idea?
pro_4_1	Sunshield costs are reasonable in face of global warming	 Sunshield costs are reasonable in face of global warming Russel Dovery. "Supervillainy: Astroengineering Global Warming". Kuro5hin. 8 Apr. 2005 - "Dr Benford, while doing most of the work himself, has exploited his friends at NASA to confirm that the engineering is viable, and the results were astounding: The whole project could be achieved with today's technology at a cost of $10 billion US dollars up-front, and another ten for maintenance over the decades of designed lifespan. That's a lot of money, but it's still about two-fifths of the initial appropriation from Congress for the Iraq war. Benford proposes an international collaboration between wealthy nations to spread the load, and I would also suggest commercial sponsors. This would make the project almost indecently viable, considering the return each nation would get from being able to ignore Kyoto and its successors for as long as they feel like."
pro_4_2	A space shield does not affect Earth's ozone like particle shading.	A space shield does not affect Earth's ozone like particle shading. Shading the earth through sulfur particles has the very negative consequence of damaging the Earth's atmosphere. A space shield does not have this consequence, as it acts outside of the the Earth's atmosphere, in space, to block a small percentage of the sun's rays.
con_4_1	Better ways to fight global warming than geoengineering	 Better ways to fight global warming than geoengineering Mike MacCracken, chief scientist for climate change projects at the Climate Institute in Washington DC, said in 2006: "If I'm going to put satellites in orbit, why not put energy generating satellites that capture solar energy and beam it down to Earth?. Rather than blasting sulphur into the stratosphere, why not invest in other kinds of energy systems, such as wind energy or ocean energy, that don't cause these kinds of problems? There's a lot to do well before you get to geoengineering."[5]
con_4_2	A space shield would be far too expensive	 A space shield would be far too expensive One proponent of a plan to launch reflective disks into orbit says that it would cost, "a few trillion dollars."[6]
headline_5	Sulfur dioxide: Is injecting sulfur dioxide into the atmosphere a good idea?
pro_5_1	Sulfur dioxide solar shielding is an economical solution	 Sulfur dioxide solar shielding is an economical solution Catherine Brahic. "Solar shield could be quick fix for global warming". New Scientist. 5 June 2007: "These schemes are almost too cheap and easy. Just one fire hose spraying sulphur dioxide into the atmosphere would do the job for a century. That would cost about $100 million - nothing in comparison to the hundreds of billions it would take to transform our energy supply."
pro_5_2	Sulfur dioxide solar shielding has gained scientific credibility.	Sulfur dioxide solar shielding has gained scientific credibility. idea gained significant credibility in 2006, when Nobel Prize—winning atmospheric scientist Paul Crutzen published an editorial examining the possibility of releasing vast amounts of sulfurous debris into the atmosphere to create a haze that would keep the planet cool. 
pro_5_3	Volcanoes perform solar shading; why is it wrong for humans to do so?	Volcanoes perform solar shading; why is it wrong for humans to do so? Volcanoes have erupted for centuries, sending thousands of megatons of sulfates and other chemicals into the atmosphere, which have had a cooling effect on the climate. Why then is it wrong for humans to do the same, for the purpose of maintaining a stable climate and global environment?  
con_5_1	Injecting sulphates into the atmosphere would destroy the ozone	 Injecting sulphates into the atmosphere would destroy the ozone Ken Caldeira, from the Carnegie Institution Department of Global Ecology at Stanford University in California, said in 2006: "I don't think we can get it right. One of the problems of putting sulphate particles in the stratosphere is that it would destroy the ozone layer; so you might solve the global warming problem, but then we'd all die of that."[8]
con_5_2	Sulfur shading solves global warming by polluting the air	 Sulfur shading "solves" global warming by polluting the air 
con_5_3	Solar shading approaches threaten to increase ocean acidification	 Solar shading approaches threaten to increase ocean acidification 
con_5_4	Sulphate solar shading may increase cloud cover	 Sulphate solar shading may increase cloud cover This is due to indirect effects of the sulphates on cloud lifetime. Light characteristics (the ratio of diffuse to direct sunlight) will change, and the biosphere may react to that.[9]
con_5_5	Volcanic clouds do great damage, as would solar shading	 Volcanic clouds do great damage, as would solar shading Natural volcanic explosions and clouds have been used as an analogy and justification for geoengineering. Yet, it is important to recognize that volcanic clouds have been highly damaging to the environment. They are, therefore, a poor basis for justifying solar shading.
con_5_6	Sulphate solar shading will change the appearance of the sky	 Sulphate solar shading will change the appearance of the sky Sulphate solar shading will create a white, cloudy-looking sky. It will also turn sunsets into a bright red color. This may be unappealing and damaging to animals and possibly to the psychology of humans.
con_5_7	Solar shading may warm the tropopause and lower stratosphere.	Solar shading may warm the tropopause and lower stratosphere.
con_5_8	Sulphate solar shading may increase acid rain.	Sulphate solar shading may increase acid rain.[10] Injecting sulphate into the atmosphere will increase the acidity of clouds and rain. 
headline_6	Space ring: Is a space ring around the earth a good idea?
pro_6_1	Solar ring would protect hottest ares on Earth	 Solar ring would protect hottest ares on Earth A solar ring "shades the tropics primarily, providing maximum effectiveness in cooling the warmest parts of our planet," according to Jerome Pearson, president of Star Technology and Research Inc.[11]
pro_6_2	Solar ring is cheapest solar shading solution	 Solar ring is cheapest solar shading solution Robert Roy Britt. "Space Ring Could Shade Earth and Stop Global Warming". Live Science. 27 June 2005 - "the price tag would knock the socks off even a big-budget agency like NASA: $6 trillion to $200 trillion for the particle approach. Deploying tiny spacecraft would come at a relative bargain: a mere $500 billion tops."
con_6_1	A space ring would be far too expensive	 A space ring would be far too expensive "Space Ring Latest Implausible Warming Solution". Technovelgy.com: "The journal Acta Astronautica has published what is probably the most outlandish suggestion yet to stop global warming on Earth - a planet-girdling ring of small particles or micro-spacecraft with reflective umbrellas...The price tag? Oh, about $6 trillion to $200 trillion for the particle solution. Much less for spacecraft."
