title	Wind energy
question	Should wind energy be a major component of plans to fight global warming? Pros and cons?
headline_1	Global warming: Is wind energy an important part of fighting global warming?
pro_1_1	Abundant wind energy can displace fossil fuels and slash emissions	 Abundant wind energy can displace fossil fuels and slash emissions A study by the Irish national grid stated that "Producing electricity from wind reduces the consumption of fossil fuels and therefore leads to emissions savings", and found reductions in CO2 emissions ranging from 0.33 to 0.59 tonnes of CO2 per MWh.[1]
pro_1_2	Wind power could free up natural gas to replace oil in cars.	Wind power could free up natural gas to replace oil in cars. Natural gas is a significant contributor to electricity generation. Yet, because it is transportable, it could be better used in cars. Therefore, wind energy, by contributing to overall electricity generation, could help free up gas to be better applied to powering cars.
pro_1_3	Wind turbines are a beautiful symbol of green consciousness.	Wind turbines are a beautiful symbol of "green" consciousness. Windmills are a visible reminder of the importance of protecting and preserving the environment. Few green energy resources are quite as visible and capable of reminding humans of the crisis of global warming and the need for humans to take action to reverse it.
pro_1_4	Clean sources can back-up wind energy down-times.	Clean sources can back-up wind energy down-times. When the wind is not blowing, back-up sources of energy will have to supply the grid. Some argue that these back-up sources will be coal and other dirty energy sources. But, this need not be the case at all. There is no reason why clean sources - such as solar, geothermal, tidal, and even nuclear - can't back-up wind energy. 
con_1_1	Wind can't generate enough energy to impact global warming	 Wind can't generate enough energy to impact global warming "Wind Report 2005". E-On Netz - "Wind energy is only able to replace traditional power stations to a limited extent. Their dependence on the prevailing wind conditions means that wind power has a limited load factor even when technically available." 
con_1_2	Inconsistent wind energy has to be backed-up by fossil fuels	 Inconsistent wind energy has to be backed-up by fossil fuels Euan C. Blauvelt, research director of ABS Energy Research, an independent market research firm in London. - "The environmental benefits of wind are not as great as its champions claim. You’ve still got to have backup sources of power, like coal-fired plants."[2]
con_1_3	Carbon costs of manufacture and transport of windmills is high	 Carbon costs of manufacture and transport of windmills is high Herb Field. "Is wind energy environmentally sound?". The Patriot-News. February 08, 2008 - "the carbon emissions associated with manufacturing, transporting and servicing windmills, and there is a carbon cost of some magnitude."
con_1_4	Wind energy is a cost-ineffective way to fight global warming	 Wind energy is a cost-ineffective way to fight global warming Patrick Sawyer. "Wind farms fail to deliver value for money, report claims". Telegraph. 14 Sep 2008 - "Excessive subsidies make them an expensive and inefficient way of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, a study by the Renewable Energy Foundation (REF) think-tank says." 
con_1_5	Wind energy, constrained by electric grid, can't help global warming	 Wind energy, constrained by electric grid, can't help global warming Wind energy is as sporadic and inconsistent as the wind. This may mean that electrical grids can't handle wind energy. If this is true, wind energy is not a viable solution to global warming.   
con_1_6	Heavy land-use of wind farms can jeopardize forests/ecosystems	 Heavy land-use of wind farms can jeopardize forests/ecosystems
headline_2	Birds: Do wind turbines have a negligible impact on birds?
pro_2_1	The number of birds killed by wind turbines is relatively low	 The number of birds killed by wind turbines is relatively low "Danger to birds is often the main complaint against the installation of a wind turbine, but actual numbers are very low: studies show that the number of birds killed by wind turbines is negligible compared to the number that die as a result of other human activities such as traffic, hunting, power lines and high-rise buildings and especially the environmental impacts of using non-clean power sources. For example, in the UK, where there are several hundred turbines, about one bird is killed per turbine per year; 10 million per year are killed by cars alone.[3] In the United States, turbines kill 70,000 birds per year, compared to 57 million killed by cars and 97.5 million killed by collisions with plate glass. An article in Nature stated that each wind turbine kills on average 0.03 birds per year, or one kill per thirty turbines.[4]
pro_2_2	Negative effects of wind energy on birds can be minimized	 Negative effects of wind energy on birds can be minimized The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) supports the increased use of wind power, “as long as wind farms are sited, designed and managed so they do not harm birds or their habitats”.
pro_2_3	Carbon emission greater threat to birds than wind energy	 Carbon emission greater threat to birds than wind energy In the UK, the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) concluded that "The available evidence suggests that appropriately positioned wind farms do not pose a significant hazard for birds."[79] It notes that climate change poses a much more significant threat to wildlife, and therefore supports wind farms and other forms of renewable energy.
con_2_1	Wind turbines kill too many birds as well as bats	 Wind turbines kill too many birds as well as bats "Wind Farms May Pose Danger to Whooping Cranes". Fox News. 28 Feb. 2008: "Whooping cranes have waged a valiant fight against extinction, but federal officials warn of a new potential threat to the endangered birds: wind farms.
con_2_2	Wind power in Australia was shut down due to dying birds.	Wind power in Australia was shut down due to dying birds. Wind power has stopped running in Australia because authorities were concerned at the number of birds dieing each year from flying into wind turbines. The influence that birds have on the wind industry is fairly large if you think about it.
con_2_3	Lights on wind towers can disrupt migratory birds.	Lights on wind towers can disrupt migratory birds. Wind turbine towers have lights on them. This can create problems for migratory birds, which rely on the stars to guide them, and which aren't evolved to interpret unnatural lights coming from the ground at night.
headline_3	Ecosystems: Does wind energy preserve or harm local ecosystems?
pro_3_1	Wind energy comes naturally from the environment.	Wind energy comes naturally from the environment. If wind does not harm the environment, then harnessing the energy of the wind should not be a problem to the environment.
con_3_1	Leaking lubricating oils from wind power can damage environment.	Leaking lubricating oils from wind power can damage environment. Due to the high spinning-speed of wind turbines, a substantial amount of lubricant is required. This lubricant leaks from the turbine and gear box and often is cast off of the tips of the spinning turbine blades into the surrounding ecosystem. This can kill plants and wildlife and can drain into local water supplies. 
con_3_2	Offshore wind turbines generate noise harmful to marine life.	Offshore wind turbines generate noise harmful to marine life. The reverberations of offshore wind turbines in the water can disturb marine wildlife and disorient them.
headline_4	Economics: Is wind energy economical?
pro_4_1	Running and maintenance costs of windmills are low.	Running and maintenance costs of windmills are low. While the installation costs of windmills can be high, the running costs are relatively low. Owners can set up windmills and effectively forget about them. 
pro_4_2	Wind farms build piecemeal, generating revenue from first windmill	 Wind farms build piecemeal, generating revenue from first windmill "The Future of Energy. Trade winds". Economist.com. Jun 19th 2008 - "wind farms can be built piecemeal, unlike most power stations. A half-finished coal-fired or nuclear power plant is a useless waste of money, but a half-finished wind farm is simply a wind farm half the size originally intended—and one that has been providing revenue since the first turbine was completed."
pro_4_3	Wind energy hedges against volatile oil prices	 Wind energy hedges against volatile oil prices Christian Kjaer, the chief executive of the European Wind Energy Association in Brussels. "[Wind energy is a] very good way of hedging against volatile oil prices and potentially volatile carbon costs."[5]
pro_4_4	Wind is an inexhaustible, renewable energy resource.	Wind is an inexhaustible, renewable energy resource. Wind is naturally occurring and cannot be exhausted. This compares favorably to exhaustible resources such as oil, coal, and gas.
pro_4_5	Wind energy is abundant and can supply massive quantities of energy.	Wind energy is abundant and can supply massive quantities of energy. There is more wind energy in the world than man could ever need to fulfill its energy requirements. In Britain, for instance, three times the wind energy used by the UK blows  over the surface of the country.
pro_4_6	Wind energy is free.	Wind energy is free. Wind energy is entirely free. This compares with favorably against almost all other forms of electricity generation, in which the fuel costs money (nuclear, coal, oil, gas...).
pro_4_7	Wind fuel does not require transporting to the generator.	Wind "fuel" does not require transporting to the generator. Unlike many other forms of fuel for electricity generation, wind "fuel" does not need to be transported to the windmill generator. It flows, instead, directly to the generator.
pro_4_8	Rising carbon-fuel prices make wind power more competitive	 Rising carbon-fuel prices make wind power more competitive 
pro_4_9	Wind energy is new and is advancing rapidly in its competitiveness.	Wind energy is new and is advancing rapidly in its competitiveness. Wind energy is, compared to other sources of energy, very young. It is advancing, therefore - in terms of the technology, manufacturing processes, and supporting industries - at a relatively fast pace. 
pro_4_10	The wind energy industry creates jobs.	The wind energy industry creates jobs. 
pro_4_11	Wind energy does not require water.	Wind energy does not require water. Unlike many other forms of energy generation, wind generators do not require the cycling of water for cooling or as the medium for transferring heat energy into usable electric energy (such as with coal or gas). 
con_4_1	The installation of windmills can be relatively expensive.	The installation of windmills can be relatively expensive. Installation cost. Putting in a windmill costs about $45000 to $50000.
con_4_2	Wind energy production is inconsistent relative to demand	 Wind energy production is inconsistent relative to demand Mark Landler. "Sweden Turns to a Promising Power Source, With Flaws". New York Times. November 23, 2007 - "Sweden’s gleaming wind park is entering service at a time when wind energy is coming under sharper scrutiny, not just from hostile neighbors, who complain that the towers are a blot on the landscape, but from energy experts who question its reliability as a source of power.
con_4_3	Wind energy production is often too far from demand	 Wind energy production is often too far from demand Mark Landler. "Sweden Turns to a Promising Power Source, With Flaws". New York Times. November 23, 2007 - "to capture the best breezes, wind farms are often built far from where the demand for electricity is highest. The power they generate must then be carried over long distances on high-voltage lines, which in Germany and other countries are strained and prone to breakdowns. In the United States, one of the areas most suited for wind turbines is the central part of the country, stretching from Texas through the northern Great Plains — far from the coastal population centers that need the most electricity."
con_4_4	Wind turbines are generally vulnerable to environmental wear and tear.	Wind turbines are generally vulnerable to environmental wear and tear. Wind turbines are fully exposed to wind, rain, snow, and variable temperatures, all of which wear on the windmills. Repairs of windmills, therefore, are commonly required, and the eventual replacement of operating windmills can be expected. 
con_4_5	Ramping wind energy up and down produces mechanical stresses.	Ramping wind energy up and down produces mechanical stresses. Because wind blows inconsistently, wind turbines and generators are constantly ramped up and down. This is mechanically stressful for wind turbines and increases maintenance and failure rates. 
con_4_6	Litigation to clear land (scenery) for windmills can be costly.	Litigation to clear land ("scenery") for windmills can be costly. Placing windmills on a ridge is often a subject of controversy in communities. There is a threat of litigation, therefore, that accompanies the installation of windmills that can be costly and even result in the forced removal of windmills from land.
headline_5	Electric grids: Is wind energy consistent with electricity grids?
pro_5_1	All energy sources need back-ups; wind energy is not uniquely bad	 All energy sources need back-ups; wind energy is not uniquely bad "Wind energy myths". Wind Powering America. May 2005 - 4 Wind energy is unpredictable and must be “backed up” by conventional generation. No power plant is 100% reliable. During a power plant outage—whether a conventional plant or a wind plant—backup is provided by the entire interconnected utility system. The system operating strategy strives to make best use of all elements of the overall system, taking into account the operating characteristics of each generating unit and planning for contingencies such as plant or transmission line outages. The utility system is also designed to accommodate load fluctuations, which occur continuously. This feature also facilitates accommodation of wind plant output fluctuations. In Denmark, Northern Germany, and parts of Spain, wind supplies 20% to 40% of electric loads without sacrificing reliability. When wind is added to a utility system, no new backup is required to maintain system reliability
con_5_1	Wind energy surges can strain electricity grids	 Wind energy surges can strain electricity grids Mark Landler. "Sweden Turns to a Promising Power Source, With Flaws". New York Times. November 23, 2007 - In Denmark, which pioneered wind energy in Europe, construction of wind farms has stagnated in recent years. The Danes export much of their wind-generated electricity to Norway and Sweden because it comes in unpredictable surges that often outstrip demand.
con_5_2	Electric grids are not designed for many disparate wind farms.	Electric grids are not designed for many disparate wind farms. Electricity grids are typically designed to have a hand full of very large generators contributing massive quantities of energy to the grid from very few locations. Wind energy runs contrary to this model, with many windfarms theoretically contributing small quantities of electricity to the grid from widespread locations. This runs contrary to the original model of grid design, and grids may have a difficult time dealing with it.
headline_6	Subsidies: Is it OK that wind energy relies on subsidies?
pro_6_1	Wind energy relies on subsidies, but just like other energy sources	 Wind energy relies on subsidies, but just like other energy sources "Wind energy myths". Wind Powering America. May 2005 - "Wind energy requires a production tax credit (PTC) to achieve these economics. True, but every energy source receives significant federal subsidies; it is disingenuous to expect wind energy to compete in the marketplace without the incentives enjoyed by established technologies."
con_6_1	Wind energy survives because it is heavily subsidized	 Wind energy survives because it is heavily subsidized "Subsidies for wind power blow over". Industrial Wind Action Group. 23 Aug. 2008: "Creating a welfare-dependent industry in the province may benefit the backers of these projects, but the potential cost to taxpayers is huge, and the outlook for an unsubsidized industry is grim. ...The wind power industry in Canada gets a federal government subsidy of $10 per megawatt hour. But B.C. consumers can expect to dig deeper. The cost of electricity from wind power is about $71 per megawatt hour. That compares to about $48 for natural gas and $25 for electricity produced from B.C.'s heritage hydro assets."
headline_7	Land-use: Is wind energy's land-use manageable?
pro_7_1	Only 1 percent of a wind-farm's surface actually gets built on.	Only 1 percent of a wind-farm's surface actually gets built on. As a result, natural wilderness or crop and livestock farming can continue around the bases of the turbines.
con_7_1	Wind farms span across wide swaths of territory.	Wind farms span across wide swaths of territory. Wind energy is diffuse, so requires collection over wide swaths of territory. This is inefficient and economical costly, and puts pressure on protected environmental areas.
con_7_2	Heavy land-use of wind farms can jeopardize forests/ecosystems.	Heavy land-use of wind farms can jeopardize forests/ecosystems. By increasing the demand for land, wind energy creates an incentive to clear forests and other natural areas to make way for wind turbines. 
headline_8	Noise: Is noise pollution from wind turbines minimal?
pro_8_1	Modern wind turbines produces relatively little noise	 Modern wind turbines produces relatively little noise For example, in December 2006, a Texas jury denied a noise pollution suit against FPL Energy, after the company demonstrated that noise readings were not excessive. The highest reading was 44 decibels, which was characterized as about the same level as a 10 mile/hour (16 km/hr) wind.
con_8_1	Wind turbines are noisy	 Wind turbines are noisy Wind turbines make a kind of thumping noise, much like a slow moving helicopter. West Virginia writer found the noise from the turbines on Backbone Mountain - "incredible. It surprised me. It sounded like airplanes or helicopters. And it traveled. Sometimes, you could not hear the sound standing right under one, but you heard it 3,000 yards down the hill."[6]
headline_9	Aesthetics: Is wind power aesthetically pleasing?
pro_9_1	Wind turbines are a beautiful symbol of green consciousness.	Wind turbines are a beautiful symbol of "green" consciousness. Wind turbines are beautiful conceptually to those that desire to combat the greatest environmental threat - global warming. If people believe that wind farms ruin natural landscapes, they should consider the costs of doing nothing to combat global warming, which would include the grander destruction of climates and landscapes.
con_9_1	Wind turbines cause annoying shadow/light flicker	 Wind turbines cause annoying shadow/light flicker Eric Rosenbloom. "A Problem With Wind Power". 5 Sept. 2006 - "The industry recognizes that the flicker of reflected light on one side and shadow on the other drives people and animals crazy."
con_9_2	Wind turbines can disrupt the scenery of a community	 Wind turbines can disrupt the scenery of a community Chatham, Ontario businessman Harry Verhey told Chatham Sunrise Rotary Club members, "The recent proliferation of industrial wind projects will have a negative impact on the community. The massive size of industrial wind turbines conflicts with the scale and character of the Chatham-Kent landscape."[7] It is notable that wind is often most active on mountains or ocean sides, where the scene is most beautiful, and where wind turbines have the most potential to disrupt the natural beauty.
headline_10	Worker safety: Do wind turbines uphold worker safety?
con_10_1	Construction deaths related to wind turbines are common.	Construction deaths related to wind turbines are common. There have been at least 40 fatalities due to construction, operation, and maintenance of wind turbines, including both workers and members of the public, and other injuries and deaths attributed to the wind power life cycle. Most worker deaths involve falls or becoming caught in machinery while performing maintenance inside turbine housings. 
headline_11	Public safety: Are wind turbines safe?
con_11_1	Wind turbines sometimes disintegrate, jeopardizing communities.	Wind turbines sometimes disintegrate, jeopardizing communities. When a turbine's brake fails, the turbine can spin freely until it disintegrates, sending the blades significant distances, risking the lives of local communities.
con_11_2	Ice collects and is flung off of wind turbines	 Ice collects and is flung off of wind turbines Eric Rosenbloom. "A Problem With Wind Power". 5 Sept. 2006 - "Ice is another problem. It builds up when the blades are still and gets flung off—as far as 1,500 feet—when they start spinning. Accumulated ice on the nacelle and tower also falls off."
headline_12	National security: Does wind energy help advance national security?
con_12_1	Wind energy obscures radar, a threat to national security	 Wind energy obscures radar, a threat to national security On February 4, 2008, according to British Ministry of Defence turbines create a hole in radar coverage so that aircraft flying overhead are not detectable. In written evidence, Squadron Leader Chris Breedon said: "This obscuration occurs regardless of the height of the aircraft, of the radar and of the turbine."[8]
headline_13	Alternatives: Is wind energy a good choice among the various energy alternatives?
con_13_1	The focus should be on saving energy, not producing more by wind	 The focus should be on saving energy, not producing more by wind Eric Rosenbloom. "A Problem With Wind Power". 5 Sept. 2006 - "It is wise to diversify the sources of our energy. But the money and legislative effort invested in large-scale wind generation could be spent much more effectively to achieve the goal of reducing our use of fossil and nuclear fuels. As an example, Country Guardian calculates that for the U.K. government subsidy towards the construction of one wind turbine, they could insulate the roofs of almost 500 houses that need it and save in two years the amount of energy the wind turbine might produce over its lifetime. Country Guardian also calculates that if every light bulb in the U.K. were switched to a more efficient one, the country could shut down an entire power plant—some-thing even Denmark, with wind producing as much as 20% of their electricity, is not able to do."
