title	Carbon emissions trading
question	Should government adopt emissions trading to combat global warming? Pros and cons?
headline_1	Emissions: Is carbon trading effective at reducing emissions, combating global warming?
pro_1_1	Cap-and-trade systems ensure emissions reductions to the set cap	 Cap-and-trade systems ensure emissions reductions to the set cap: "Carbon tax vs. carbon market: who would win in a fight?". 15 Aug. 2006 - "In a cap-and-trade carbon market, total emissions are guaranteed to go down. The cap is the cap, and assuming some reasonably effective enforcement mechanism, not a pound more carbon can be emitted. A carbon tax, on the other hand, merely encourages people to emit less by making it more expensive to do so. And in the case of fossil fuels, people seem perversely resistant to financial incentives."
pro_1_2	Carbon trading incentivizes companies to cut emissions	 Carbon trading incentivizes companies to cut emissions: A cap-and-trade system provides companies with credits if they are able to reduce their emissions below an established level. They can then sell these credits for a profit. So, if a company takes action to reduce its carbon emissions below the designated level, than it can make a profit. This is a powerful market incentive that is more likely to cause companies to invest money in finding ways to reduce their carbon emissions. A carbon tax, conversely, only provides the incentive of cutting costs, and does not offer this important profit motive.
pro_1_3	Emissions trading encourages investments in best technologies	 Emissions trading encourages investments in best technologies Bill Chameides, Chief Scientist at Environmental Defense. "Cap-and-trade: more effective than a carbon tax". Grist.org. 12 Feb. 2007 -  "Subsidizing one or two targeted technologies with a carbon tax would discourage investment in others that may turn out to be more effective. Which technologies should receive these tax dollars? No one has a crystal ball that can determine for sure which will turn out to be most useful. History has shown that the marketplace does a better job of developing new technologies, and a tax takes money out of the marketplace. The solution is cap-and-trade. A cap-and-trade strategy provides the incentive for all segments of the economy to compete to discover the best ways to cut emissions."
con_1_1	Emissions trading wrongly allows companies to buy right to pollute	 Emissions trading wrongly allows companies to buy right to pollute "The Case Against Carbon Trading". Rising Tide. Mar. 2002 - "Carbon Trading IS an Excuse to Avoid Real Emissions Reductions. The hopelessly compromised Kyoto Protocol now allows countries to meet all their emissions reductions with carbon credits bought through three forms of carbon trading; Joint Implementation, Clean Development Mechanism, International Emissions Trade. Some countries will certainly choose to buy credits rather than make any serious attempt to reduce their underlying dependency on fossil fuels."
con_1_2	Emissions trading doesn't ensure reductions in local emissions	 Emissions trading doesn't ensure reductions in local emissions Kevin E. McCarthy. "Pros and cons of air emissions credit tradings". 9 Oct. 2000 - "The principal argument against trading programs is that they do not guarantee that improvements to air quality occur in the [local] areas that are most affected by air pollution. Some of the existing trading programs, such as the federal acid rain program for sulfur dioxide, allow trades over a very large region. While such programs do improve air quality in the aggregate, they do not necessarily reduce emissions at sources that make the greatest contribution to local air pollution and its resulting health problems."
con_1_3	Cap-and-trade systems create emissions caps arbitrarily	 Cap-and-trade systems create emissions caps arbitrarily Bailey. "Carbon Taxes versus Carbon Markets". 18 May 2007 - "Carbon taxes also avoid the baseline quandary that bedevils carbon markets. For example, signatories to the Kyoto Protocol are supposed to cut their emissions of greenhouse gases by 7 percent below what they emitted in 1990. Why? That goal has no relationship to any specific environmental policy objective." 
con_1_4	Carbon tax can be implemented much faster than cap-and-trade	 Carbon tax can be implemented much faster than cap-and-trade - A carbon tax is simple enough that it can be implemented immediately. Emissions trading takes much more time. In the context of global warming, immediacy is very important.
headline_2	Economics: Is an emissions trading system economical?
pro_2_1	Carbon trading encourages efficient emissions reductions	 Carbon trading encourages efficient emissions reductions "Why a Cap-And-Trade System Beats a Carbon Tax". Portfolio.com (Conde Nast). 19 Apr. 2007 - "The efficiency [of a cap-and-trade system] comes with the "trade" part. Let's say you have two power plants, each emitting 100 tons of carbon per hour. The first can reduce its emissions by 20 tons at a cost of $5 per ton, and the second can reduce its emissions by only 10 tons, at a cost of $30 per ton. Clearly the efficient thing to do is to make the former reduction rather than the latter, with the owner of the second plant paying the owner of the first plant to offset the first owner's extra costs [by buying carbon credits and the "right" to pollute from the first plant]."
pro_2_2	Emissions trading reduces economic costs of greenhouse gas emissions.	Emissions trading reduces economic costs of greenhouse gas emissions. One of the strongest pieces of evidence supporting this argument is the United States sulfur dioxide cap-and-trade system, in which the economic costs of acid rain damage was dramatically reduced. According to the EPA, the benefits of the 1990 amendments exceeded implementation costs by a factor of four, with a maximum estimate of $1.4 trillion.[1]
pro_2_3	Cap-and-trade systems are flexible in the global economy	  Cap-and-trade systems are flexible in the global economy Nations that adopt a cap-and-trade system can later link their system into other cap-and-trade systems around the world. It would not be as easy for a carbon tax to achieve this. This is important in today's global economy, where multinational companies exist across borders. 
con_2_1	Emissions trading has govt not markets set cap	 Emissions trading has govt not markets set cap "Is carbon trading a market mechanism?": "There appears to be a misconception among many 'lay economists' that carbon trading is a 'market mechanism' while carbon taxes are not. However, government control of the quantity of an item being sold is no more of a market based mechanism than government control of the price. Where it counts, carbon taxes make far better use of market forces than carbon trading schemes." 
con_2_2	Companies will pollute excessively before starting carbon trading.	Companies will pollute excessively before starting carbon trading. The main problem is that baseline emission allowances for companies are based on their past emissions. For this reason, a company has the incentive to emit as much as possible when these baselines are being set so that the baseline is above or at what the company is already emitting. If a company successfully tricks the system in this way, they will be able to emit carbon as they had before, with no reductions being achieved.
con_2_3	Complicated cap-and-trade system requires costly administration.	Complicated cap-and-trade system requires costly administration. The costs of establishing and administering a cap-and-trade system could be substantial. It demands that a cap be set, monitored, and enforced. This is a highly complicated process, given the size of the energy market, and would demand substantial administrative oversight. 
con_2_4	Cap-and-trade schemes cause job loss	 Cap-and-trade schemes cause job loss By generally making the status quo more costly for businesses, carbon trading can decrease revenues overall and lead to job loss.
con_2_5	Emissions trading increases government costs and lowers revenue	 Emissions trading increases government costs and lowers revenue Managing emissions trading costs governments money, yet it does not increase revenues, like a tax can. 
con_2_6	Economic costs of cap-and-trade outweigh environmental gain	 Economic costs of cap-and-trade outweigh environmental gain 
headline_3	Feasibility: Is a carbon trading system feasible? Are there examples?
pro_3_1	The EU Emissions Trading System is a success	 The EU Emissions Trading System is a success "Review of pilot phase of European Union Emissions Trading Scheme finds it to be successful". Denny Ellerman. 28 May  2007 - "An analysis of the historical emissions data by the economists suggests that abatement or environmental measure taken by companies had achieved a reduction of about 7 per cent, even allowing for the growth in emissions that accompanies growth in gross domestic product. The economists conclude ETS has been successful in helping to correct what they call the market failure that surrounds climate change, and in delivering the EU's commitments to reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions under the Kyoto Protocol. The seven conclude that it will be central to future global climate negotiations. They also call for a global framework for managing climate policy in the long term."[2]
pro_3_2	US cap-and-trade in sulfur dioxidew was succesful	 US cap-and-trade in sulfur dioxidew was succesful The EU cap-and-trade system was founded in 2005. It is unfair to judge it too critically in its first years. It takes time for problems with it to be worked out.
pro_3_3	US cap-and-trade in sulfur dioxide was successful	 US cap-and-trade in sulfur dioxide was successful This program was initiated by US Congressional legislation in 1990, and has seen major reductions in the emission of sulfur dioxide since. This chemical is primarily responsible for acid rain; a dramatic problem in the Northeastern United States during the 80s that has since been effectively eliminated. 
pro_3_4	The Chicago Climate Exchange is a success and model	 The Chicago Climate Exchange is a success and model. Jason Margolis. "My Kind of Down Chicago Climate Exchange paves the way for U.S. emissions trading". 14 Jun 2005 - "City officials are not sitting idly by waiting to see if or when such things could happen. This spring, Oakland became the second U.S. municipality to join the Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX) -- North America's first and only voluntary, but legally binding, emissions-trading market.
con_3_1	Europe's cap-and-trade system has encountered major problems	  Europe's cap-and-trade system has encountered major problems "Emissions Trading". The Economist. 18 June. 2006 - "Designed to discourage the production of greenhouse gases and encourage investment in cleaner forms of energy, it has rewarded polluters rather than penalising them, and failed to boost alternatives."     
con_3_2	Cap-and-trade systems are implemented too slowly	Cap-and-trade systems are implemented too slowly "Carbon tax vs cap-and-trade: which one is more likely to disgust the American public?". Environmental Economics. 6 June 2007: Our fear is that with so many billions at stake, any carbon cap-and-trade program will necessarily be beset by crippling delays, inside-dealing and favoritism run wild. The result will be to disgust and disillusion the American public so that it turns against putting a price on carbon emissions altogether.
con_3_3	Cap-and-trade systems are susceptible to corruption	 Cap-and-trade systems are susceptible to corruption: The complexity of a cap-and-trade system would make it easier for companies to cheat. This is largely because the enforcement of this system would be difficult. 
con_3_4	Governments under cap-and-trade systems have an incentive to cheat	 Governments under cap-and-trade systems have an incentive to "cheat" Governments have the incentive to establish conditions favorable to the performance of their own national companies. They can do so by, for example, offering more carbon credits than they should to the companies of their country. The EU's emissions trading system is the primary example of this occurring.  
con_3_5	Cap-and-trade systems are susceptible to distortion by lobby groups	 Cap-and-trade systems are susceptible to distortion by lobby groups Anne Applebaum. "Global Warming's Simple Remedy". Washington Post. 6 Feb. 2007 - "I no longer believe that a complicated carbon trading regime — in which industries trade emissions "credits" — would work within the United States … So much is at stake for so many industries that the legislative process to create it would be easily distorted by their various lobbies." 
con_3_6	Global C02 trading not like US sulfur trading	 Global C02 trading not like US sulfur trading "The case against carbon trading". Rising Tide - "CO2 IS NOT SO2. The main model for carbon trading is Sulphur Dioxide (SO2) emissions trading under the US 1990 Clean Air Act. This programme faced none of the problems listed above- it was small (a few hundred companies), easy to monitor (one pollutant from one source-power generation), had permanent targets, and, above all, was conducted within one country with strong enforcement mechanisms."
headline_4	Social: Are carbon emissions trading systems socially beneficial, fair?
pro_4_1	Emissions trading involves sufficient democratic control	 Emissions trading involves sufficient democratic control Emissions trading does not make the environment and emissions into property and place all power in the hands of the markets. Rather, government is in charge of establishing the system through democratic processes and setting "caps". The public, therefore, are in charge of cap-and-trade systems. It is wrong, therefore, to argue that the environment is being turned into private property and that too much power is being put into the hands of private companies.
pro_4_2	A cap-and-trade system is progressive	 A cap-and-trade system is "progressive" TerraPass. "Carbon tax vs. carbon market: who would win in a fight?". 15 Sept. 2006: "Tradeable carbon credits, on the other hand, could conceivably result in a net transfer of wealth to the poor. Although the poor spend a bigger proportion of their income on energy, the wealthy consume a far greater amount of carbon in absolute terms. So under a cap-and-trade regime, we would expect the poor (and the energy thrifty) to have excess credits to sell to their more profligate neighbors." 
pro_4_3	Carbon trading fairly punishes inefficient polluters.	Carbon trading fairly punishes inefficient polluters. Given the above argument, this is a more reasonable approach to rewarding and punishing an industry whose emergence pre-dates the environmental concerns surrounding carbon emissions. Polluters should be rewarded for taking steps to be more "efficient", opposed to being efficient already. 
con_4_1	Carbon trading wrongly turns atmosphere into tradeable property	 Carbon trading wrongly turns atmosphere into tradeable property "The case against carbon trading". Rising Tide UK. 2002 - "You can't trade in something unless you own it. When governments and companies "trade" in carbon, they establish de facto property rights over the atmosphere; a commonly held global commons. At no point have these atmospheric property rights been discussed or negotiated - their ownership is established by stealth with every carbon trade."
con_4_2	Emissions trading will worsen global inequalities	 Emissions trading will worsen global inequalities "The case against carbon trading". Risingtide UK.  2002 - "Market shares in the new carbon market will be allocated on the basis of who is already the largest polluter and who is fastest to exploit the market. The new "carbocrats" will therefore be the global oil, chemical, and car corporations, and the richest nations; the very groups that created the problem of climate change in the first place. What is more, with the current absence of "supplementarity", the richest nations and corporations will be able to further increase their global share of emissions by outbidding poorer interests for carbon credits."
con_4_3	Emissions trading can disproportionately pollute poor countries	  Emissions trading can disproportionately pollute poor countries "Cap and trade is not the answer: an open letter". Transnational Institute. 31 Jan. 2007 - "Sulphur dioxide trading in the U.S., often touted as an unequivocal success and a model for carbon trading programs internationally, has had similar disproportionate impacts on poor communities and communities of color. It was their air quality that suffered in exchange for more "efficient" cuts in pollution elsewhere. Plants in Tennessee were allowed to spew tons more sulphur dioxide into the air than plants in the Northeast, choking the residents living near the plant with acid gases. Paint peeled off cars and local property values suffered as communities in the Northeast benefited."
