title	Natural gas vehicles
question	Should NGVs be prioritized in plans to fight global warming? Pros and cons?
headline_1	Global warming: Do natural gas vehicles help cut emissions, fight global warming?
pro_1_1	Natural gas vehicles reduce emissions, fight global warming	 Natural gas vehicles reduce emissions, fight global warming U.S. Department of Energy. "Natural Gas". - "Serving alternative fuel vehicles (AFVs), natural gas is clean burning and produces significantly fewer harmful emissions than reformulated gasoline."
pro_1_2	Natural gas burns more cleanly than gasoline in general	Natural gas burns more cleanly than gasoline in general "The Natural Gas Alternative". ConsumerReports.org - "CNG is much cleaner-burning than gasoline. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, CNG can reduce carbon-monoxide emissions by 90 to 97 percent and nitrogen-oxide emissions by 35 to 60 percent when compared with gasoline. CNG can also potentially reduce non-methane hydrocarbon emissions by 50 to 75 percent, while producing fewer carcinogenic pollutants and little or no particulate matter. When the 1998 Civic GX was introduced, the EPA cited it as having the cleanest internal combustion engine ever tested."
pro_1_3	Natural gas is the cleanest transportation fuel available	 Natural gas is the cleanest transportation fuel available T Boone Pickens says, "Natural gas is the cleanest transportation fuel available today". The important conclusion is that, if we want to immediately begin the process of significantly reducing greenhouse gas emissions, natural gas can help now. Other alternatives cannot be pursued as quickly.
pro_1_4	Existing gasoline vehicles can be converted to cleaner natural gas.	Existing gasoline vehicles can be converted to cleaner natural gas. Gasoline vehicles can be converted to run on natural gas. This means that heavy-polluting vehicles can be transformed into much lower-emission vehicles. This is key, as the millions of gasoline vehicles on the road currently cannot be immediately removed from the road. They must be made cleaner. Converting them to burn on natural gas is a good way to achieve this.
pro_1_5	Natural gas can help smooth the transition to renewable energy.	Natural gas can help smooth the transition to renewable energy. Natural gas is a good first step in cutting emissions, and can act as a bridge to cleaner alternatives. The supporters of the Broadwater LNG terminal in Long Island Sound make this case: "Natural gas play a vital role in providing a bridge from traditional fossil fuels to a renewable energy future". 
pro_1_6	Emissions from natural gas can be filtered out	 Emissions from natural gas can be filtered out "New Membrane Strips Carbon Dioxide From Natural Gas Faster And Better". ScienceDaily. 14 Oct. 2007 - "A modified plastic material greatly improves the ability to separate global warming-linked carbon dioxide from natural gas as the gas is prepared for use, according to engineers at The University of Texas at Austin who have analyzed the new plastic's performance." 
con_1_1	NGV's may reduce emissions, but still contribute to global warming	 NGV's may reduce emissions, but still contribute to global warming Natural gas vehicles run on natural gas, a fossil fuel, so emit significant amounts of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, albeit smaller amounts than gasoline-fueled cars (roughly 30% less). If our goal is to aggressively fight global warming, does it make sense to invest in slightly cleaner technologies, or fully 0-emission ones? If we are serious about combating global warming, we should be focusing our energies and investments solely on 0-emission electric vehicles. 
con_1_2	Natural gas hardly reduces emissions compared to petroleum	 Natural gas hardly reduces emissions compared to petroleum The Wall Street Journal quoted a California Energy Commission: "When natural gas replaces gasoline, greenhouse gases are reduced by just 20 to 30%. When natural gas is used instead of diesel in trucks, greenhouse gases are reduced just 10 to 20%. If diesel is almost comparable, then it makes more sense to fund that as a stop gap as that infrastructure is already in place."[1]
con_1_3	0-emissions vehicles are a superior option to natural gas vehicles	 0-emissions vehicles are a superior option to natural gas vehicles Samantha Rose. "The questionable benefit of natural gas vehicles". TG Daily. 14 Aug 2008 - "On the surface, natural gas cars seem alright, but the topic becomes a bit different when these cars are competing against “zero emission” alternatives such as electric cars that are powered utilizing a solar grid."
con_1_4	More efficient gasoline cars and hybrids are better than NGVs	 More efficient gasoline cars and hybrids are better than NGVs Samantha Rose. "The questionable benefit of natural gas vehicles". TG Daily. 14 Aug 2008 - "the benefits to natural gas vehicles over gasoline vehicles have dropped in the past two decades as new combustion engines are being manufactured to be more efficient and cleaner." Continuing to make gasoline engines more efficient, even by creating hybrid vehicles, will be easier and go just as far as attempting to move to natural gas vehicles.
con_1_5	Gasoline vehicles converted for natural gas are inefficient.	Gasoline vehicles converted for natural gas are inefficient. Gasoline/petrol vehicles converted to run on natural gas suffer because of the low compression ratio of their engines, resulting in a cropping of delivered power while running on natural gas (10%-15%). This inefficiency is costly economically and in terms of global warming.
con_1_6	Natural gas will decrease price of oil and coal and increase consumption.	Natural gas will decrease price of oil and coal and increase consumption. Natural gas will simply relieve demand pressures on coal and petroleum and, subsequently, decrease prices. This will only make it easier for people to buy and consume oil and coal. Natural gas will not, therefore, replace coal and petroleum. It will only add to the absolute amount of fossil fuels we are burning, and greenhouse gases we are emitting.
con_1_7	Methane in natural gas is a major contributor to global warming	 Methane in natural gas is a major contributor to global warming. Methane is a much worse greenhouse gas than C02. Methane is very prominent within "natural gas". This is of concern because the drilling and transportation of natural gas will inevitably lead to leaks and large-scale "spills" that will release this highly harmful gas into the atmosphere and contribute substantially to global warming. These risks should not be taken.
headline_2	Footprint: Is the environmental footprint of natural gas drilling tolerable?
pro_2_1	Technology minimizes environmental footprint of natural gas	 Technology minimizes environmental "footprint" of natural gas "Natural Gas - A Fossil Fuel". Energy Information Administration - "Exploring and drilling for natural gas will always have some impact on land and marine habitats. But new technologies have greatly reduced the number and size of areas disturbed by drilling, sometimes called "footprints." Satellites, global positioning systems, remote sensing devices, and 3-D and 4-D seismic technologies, make it possible to discover natural gas reserves while drilling fewer wells. Plus, the use of horizontal and directional drilling make it possible for a single well to produce gas from much bigger areas than in the past."
con_2_1	Natural gas drilling leaves a large environmental footprint	 Natural gas drilling leaves a large environmental "footprint" Any process of exploring for natural gas and drilling for it leaves a significant environmental "footprint". This is in the infrastructure and utilities that must be laid down for natural gas as well as the act of drilling itself.
con_2_2	Waste from natural gas extraction jeopardizes water resources	 Waste from natural gas extraction jeopardizes water resources Mr. Gennaro, chairman of the Council’s Environmental Protection Committee responding to the concept of drilling for natural gas in the Marcellus Shale formation by saying, “no” and “no.”...This is an activity that is completely and utterly inconsistent with a drinking water supply. This cannot happen. This would destroy the New York City watershed, and for what? For short-term gains on natural gas?"[2]
con_2_3	Natural gas is a nonrenewable fossil fuel.	Natural gas is a nonrenewable fossil fuel. Nonrenewable fossil fuels are inherently primitive and destructive to the environment. They involve extracting a fuel source from the ground instead of extracting it from the various forms of the sun's energy. This is unsustainable, and should be avoided.
headline_3	Economics: What are the economical pros and cons of natural gas?
pro_3_1	Natural gas can cost much less than gasoline per gallon	Natural gas can cost much less than gasoline per gallon The cost of CNG can be as little as half that of a gallon of gas if you use a home refueling device. And at commercial stations, the cost is still less than gasoline. Some research pegs the fuel savings at about 30 percent less than gasoline on average. In Utah, in August of 2008, compressed natural gas was selling for roughly 87 cents a gallon compared to gasoline, according to the New York Times.[3]
pro_3_2	Natural gas is abundant, cheap, and will last for centuries.	 Natural gas is abundant, cheap, and will last for centuries. One 2007 study in the United States found that natural gas deposits are sufficient to supply 118 years of U.S. demand at 2007 levels. Natural gas is similarly abundant around the world. Essentially, it is as abundant as oil was 50 years ago, largely because it has not been exploited on a large scale yet. Such abundance means that it is likely to cost much less than oil.
pro_3_3	With gasoline prices high, natural gas is relatively cheap	 With gasoline prices high, natural gas is relatively cheap 
pro_3_4	Natural gas vehicles are commercially viable now	 Natural gas vehicles are commercially viable now "Natural Gas Vehicles - A 'Now Solution' to Reducing Global Warming". IANGV. 02 June 2003 - "The world-wide organization says vehicles using compressed natural gas (CNG) and liquefied natural gas (LNG) now total more than two million and are operating in more than 50 countries. "The natural gas vehicle industry is mature and commercially viable in many countries. More than 50 vehicle manufacturers are now producing factory-built natural gas vehicles," says the organisation’s New Zealand-based Secretary-General, Dr Garth Harris."
pro_3_5	Natural gas vehicles have been around for decades	 Natural gas vehicles have been around for decades "Natural Gas Vehicles The Clean Way to Go with a Domestic Fuel". Washington Gas. - "Is using natural gas in engines a new idea? Not at all. The first natural gas engine was built in 1860, before the development of the gasoline engine. Natural gas vehicles have been used with much success in the United States since the 1960s and in Europe for nearly 50 years. In fact, there are currently more than 30,000 natural gas vehicles on U.S. roads and over 700,000 worldwide."
con_3_1	Compressed natural gas vehicles cost more	 Compressed natural gas vehicles cost more "The Natural Gas Alternative". ConsumerReports.org - "CNG-powered vehicles have generally cost more to purchase new than comparable gasoline models. Suggested retail for the Civic GX is $24,590 plus $635 for freight. A comparably equipped, gasoline-powered Civic LX lists for $17,760. Honda concedes GX resale values can also be $1,000 to $3,000 less than their gasoline counterparts. Add to that the cost of a Phill refueling unit at $3,400 plus the installation cost, upwards of $500, and the premium could easily top $10,000."
con_3_2	Natural gas vehicles are not yet commercially viable.	Natural gas vehicles are not yet commercially viable. Natural gas vehicles are in the early stages of development. The technology behind CNG and LNG vehicles is very uncertain. In addition, the infrastructure for natural gas vehicles is not yet established. Natural gas vehicles, therefore, are not yet commercially viable on a large scale.
con_3_3	Most nations must import natural gas from abroad	 Most nations must import natural gas from abroad Katie Fehrenbacher. "10 Things You Should Know About Natural Gas Vehicles". Earth2Tech - "4). Natural gas is still a fossil fuel: Natural gas might be cleaner-burning than oil but it’s still a hydrocarbon that has to be taken out of wells and is in limited supply. The California Energy Commission says that with the rising demand for natural gas (accompanied by high oil prices) more than 15 percent of our natural gas will be imported from countries other than Canada and Mexico by 2025."
headline_4	Infrastructure: Is a natural gas vehicle infrastructure feasible?
pro_4_1	NGV's can be refueled anywhere from existing natural gas lines.	NGV's can be refueled anywhere from existing natural gas lines. NGV's can be refueled anywhere from existing natural gas lines. This makes home refueling stations that tap into such lines possible. It is not true that an entirely new infrastructure would have to be created for refueling natural gas vehicles. Modifying existing infrastructures will work.
con_4_1	Natural gas stations are unavailable in some places	 Natural gas stations are unavailable in some places  Natural gas pumps are rare. In the United States, for instance, only 1% of all gas stations have natural gas pumps. This relates to the fact that the natural gas industry is young, and natural gas pipelines do not extend to all places where natural gas stations are needed. This severely limits the growth of natural gas vehicles, as people will not buy the vehicles unless they know that a robust refilling infrastructure exists to support them. 
headline_5	Safety: Are natural gas vehicles safe?
pro_5_1	Natural gas vehicle fuel tanks are very strong and safe	Natural gas vehicle fuel tanks are very strong and safe "Natural Gas Vehicles The Clean Way to Go with a Domestic Fuel". Washington Gas. - "Is using natural gas in a vehicle safe?...Yes. First, the natural gas storage cylinders are very sturdy, a half-inch thick compared to an eighth or sixteenth of an inch for gasoline tanks. Second, natural gas is lighter than air, so even if a leak develops, the gas dissipates into the air instead of forming a spreading pool or vapor cloud on the ground, as other fuels do. Third, the combustion temperature of natural gas, 1200 degrees Fahrenheit, is higher than that of gasoline, 600 degrees Fahrenheit. An American Gas Association study reported no injuries or fatalities after more than a half billion miles driven with natural gas vehicles."
pro_5_2	Natural gas leaks dissipate quickly; pose little risk	 Natural gas leaks dissipate quickly; pose little risk "Natural Gas Vehicles The Clean Way to Go with a Domestic Fuel". Washington gas - "natural gas has a proven safety record. Because natural gas is lighter than air, any leaking fuel will not pool like liquids, but will dissipate into the air."
pro_5_3	Natural gas is less flammable and explosive than other fuels	Natural gas is less flammable and explosive than other fuels Natural gas is a safer fuel than gasoline and diesel fuels. This is related to the fact that it has a limited range of flammability; it requires the correct mixture of air and fuel to burn—somewhere in the 5 to 15 percent range, and an ignition temperature of approximately 1100 degrees F. This compares favorably to gasoline and diesel fuels which both have lower concentrations of flammability and lower temperatures of ignition.[4]
pro_5_4	Natural gas utilities have a long record of safety	Natural gas utilities have a long record of safety Natural gas already has a long history of extraction, transport, and use in homes and utilities. In that history, there are very few instances of safety issues, leaks, fires, or explosions. The safety record of the industry is very solid, and should be expected to remain so into the future.
pro_5_5	Natural gas safety regulations are very strong	Natural gas safety regulations are very strong Natural gas is already heavily regulated in terms of safety. These regulations have worked very well to virtually eliminate any major risks associated with the fuel. Sensors, for example, can be added to cars and utilities to detect leaks. Any problems in regards to the safety of natural gas, however, can and should be addressed through further regulation.   
con_5_1	Natural gas leaks are a fire and explosion risk	 Natural gas leaks are a fire and explosion risk "Cleveland: Natural Gas Boom Has Hidden Danger". 2 May 2008 - "Our affiliate in Cleveland, Ohio is reporting on the hidden dangers of natural gas wells being drilled in residential neighborhoods...NewsChannel5 Chief Investigator Duane Pohlman interviews an elderly couple who lost their home after a massive natural gas explosion, which was traced to a new well located just down the road from their home." 
con_5_2	Odorless natural gas can escape detection risking fire/explosion.	Odorless natural gas can escape detection risking fire/explosion. Odorless natural gas can escape detection by smell, which means that a house, factory, pipes or other natural gas utilities can release and be filled with natural gas. A spark or flame can, subsequently, cause a major fire or explosion.
con_5_3	Unregulated natural gas car conversions can be dangerous	Unregulated natural gas car conversions can be dangerous Brandon Loomis. "Mileage vs. safety? Number of natural gas car conversions explodes". The Salt Lake Tribune. 26 August 2008 - "Many of the [natural gas] vehicles [in Utah] - including the nearly 700 that earned one-time tax breaks last year - are professionally equipped, safe and certified by the Environmental Protection Agency...Others are backyard jobs with worn tanks and faulty exhaust systems, endangering both motorists and the Wasatch Front's air, Clean Cities Director Robin Erickson said. Those who buy old tanks or don't install kits properly are creating car bombs..."They could cause a serious explosion," Erickson warned." 
headline_6	Health: Is using natural gas healthy for humans?
pro_6_1	Natural gas is non-toxic.	Natural gas is non-toxic. Natural gas is a non-toxic gas. The presence of the gas in the air does not present any direct toxic risks to humans.
pro_6_2	Odors added to natural gas to enable human detection	 Odors added to natural gas to enable human detection "Why Natural Gas Is Dangerous". Alliant Energy - "When natural gas first comes out of the ground, you can’t see it or smell it. That’s why gas companies add a chemical that smells like rotten eggs to the gas to make even the smallest leaks easy to notice...Luckily, natural gas leaks are rare. Fires and explosions are even more uncommon – the rotten egg smell helps people get help quickly before anything bad happens. A minute amount of odorant such as t-butyl mercaptan, with a rotting-cabbage-like smell, is added to the otherwise colorless and almost odorless gas, so that leaks can be detected before a fire or explosion occurs. Sometimes a related compound, thiophane is used, with a rotten-egg smell. Adding odorant to natural gas began in the United States after the 1937 New London School explosion.  It is substantially improved the detection and safety of natural gas.
con_6_1	Argument: Natural gas can be harmful and even poisonous to ingest	Argument: Natural gas can be harmful and even poisonous to ingest "'Natural' gas may be harmful to your health". AEHA. - "AEHA-NS. and its coalition partners are investivaging the harmful effects of piper natural gas on environmentally induced illness/chemical sensitivity, asthma and allergies as part of the Environmental Assessment of the Sable Island Gas Project proposal....The effects of the transmission and use of piped natural gas upon persons with environmentally induced illness/chemical sensitivity (2), asthma or allergies can be significant and extremely harmful." 
con_6_2	Odorless natural gas presents greater risk of ingestion.	Odorless natural gas presents greater risk of ingestion. Natural gas is colorless, tasteless, and oderless. Without any added odor, it can escape olfactory detection and be ingested by people. 
con_6_3	Burning natural gas releases ultra-fine particles; a health risk.	Burning natural gas releases ultra-fine particles; a health risk. Burning natural gas releases a significant amount of ultra fine particles that are less than .1 micron in diameter. Several studies indicate that ultrafine particles may have an even more dramatic impact on health than those in the fine category (for which diesel has always been a concern).[5]\
headline_7	Performance: Do natural gas vehicles perform well?
pro_7_1	Natural gas cars perform comparably to petrol cars	 Natural gas cars perform comparably to petrol cars "The Natural Gas Alternative". ConsumerReports.org - "The driving experience. Drivers are not expected to notice a significant difference in performance between a CNG-powered vehicle and one fueled by gasoline. Acceleration is comparable, and the car starts and drives normally. Gas mileage is about the same. As a bonus, in some states, drivers of CNG vehicles can use the HOV lane. A study of New York City taxis running on natural gas concluded that maintenance costs were also reduced."
con_7_1	The performance of natural gas vehicles is not notable.	The performance of natural gas vehicles is not notable. Natural gas vehicles are not anything special, as far as performance goes. It should, therefore, not be considered an advantage.
headline_8	Practicality: Are natural gas vehicles practical?
pro_8_1	NGV's operate just like gasoline vehicles (no training required).	NGV's operate just like gasoline vehicles (no training required). "Is any special training needed to use natural gas vehicles? No. A natural gas vehicle operates like any gasoline- or diesel-powered vehicle. In the case of bi-fuel vehicles, some simple instruction may be needed to use the fuel selector."
pro_8_2	Existing gasoline-powered vehicles may be converted to CNG	 Existing gasoline-powered vehicles may be converted to CNG An increasing number of vehicles worldwide are being converted to run on compressed natural gas.
pro_8_3	Refueling natural gas vehicles fast and convenient	 Refueling natural gas vehicles fast and convenient "Natural Gas Vehicles The Clean Way to Go with a Domestic Fuel". Washington Gas. - "How do you fuel a natural gas vehicle, and how long does it take? A natural gas vehicle is fueled using a hose and nozzle that are attached to a natural gas pump. A natural gas vehicle can be fueled at a "fast-fill" pump in about the same time it takes to fuel any gasoline- or diesel-powered vehicle. Or it can be fueled in five-to-eight hours using a "slow-fill" method. This method is often used for fleet vehicles that can return to a central station at the end of the day and be refueled during the night."
con_8_1	Natural gas cars have a smaller range than gasoline engines.	Natural gas cars have a smaller range than gasoline engines. Natural gas vehicles have a shorter driving range than regular gas-powered vehicles. This is because natural gas has a lower energy content compared to gas.[6]
con_8_2	Refueling will only be easy with a natural gas infrastructure.	Refueling will only be easy with a natural gas infrastructure. In order for natural gas refueling to be convenient, a natural gas infrastructure will need to exist early on. Assuming this will take time, natural gas vehicle owners will have to deal with having far fewer natural gas stations. This will be prohibitive in some areas and a major hassle in others.
headline_9	LNG: What are the pros and cons of liquefied natural gas?
pro_9_1	Liquefied natural gas can be a good fuel for vehicles.	Liquefied natural gas can be a good fuel for vehicles. Vehicles require a fuel that is easily transportable and that is capable of working with existing or modified combustion engines. Liquefied natural gas is capable of this. This is particularly important in the context of the fact that one of the largest contributors to global warming is vehicles. Because LNG is capable of being used in vehicles, while many other "energy" sources are not (or less so), it is a very important "clean" alternative.
con_9_1	LNG tankers are vulnerable to terrorist attacks.	LNG tankers are vulnerable to terrorist attacks. LNG tankers are massive tankers with multiple large, highly-compressed liquid natural gas tanks on board. When entering a port, a tanker could be attacked by a boat carrying a large bomb, which could set off a massive series of explosions from the natural gas chambers. This could devastate a port city. Such risks should not be taken in the face of 21st century terrorism threats. 
