title	Hybrid vehicles
question	Should hybrid vehicles be a major part of plans to fight global climate change?
headline_1	Emissions: Can hybrid vehicles significantly reduce greenhouse emissions?
pro_1_1	Hybrids significantly reduce emissions, fight global warming	 Hybrids significantly reduce emissions, fight global warming Hybrid vehicles are far more fuel efficient; sometimes between two to three times more fuel efficient. This means that they can emit 1/3 to 1/2 the greenhouse gases of ordinary gasoline cars. Because gasoline vehicles are the single greatest contributor to global warming, hybrid vehicles can make a significant contribution to the fight against global warming. 
pro_1_2	New batteries increase hybrid efficiency and reduce emissions	 New batteries increase hybrid efficiency and reduce emissions New Rechargeable Lithium Batteries Could Jump-start Hybrid Electric Car Efficiency". ScienceDaily. 16 Sep. 2008 — "Researchers at the University of Bath are helping to develop new rechargeable batteries that could improve hybrid electric cars in the future. Transport is a major energy user and is estimated to be responsible for around 25% of the UK's total carbon emissions."
pro_1_3	Hybrids reduce emissions through regenerative braking.	Hybrids reduce emissions through regenerative braking. The process recaptures energy normally wasted during braking, by converting the kinetic energy of braking into electricity that can be stored in an on-board electric battery. This electric battery is then used to back-up the gasoline engine and increase efficiency. This reduces the use of gasoline and diesel in engines and reduces emissions. This approach is a simple way to help in the fight against global warming.
pro_1_4	Hybrids increase efficiency by shutting engines down while idling.	Hybrids increase efficiency by shutting engines down while idling. Too much energy is wasted and greenhouse gases emitted at stops and when idling or coasting. Hybrid cars reduce these inefficincies and senseless emissions by shutting down while coasting or when idling at stops.
pro_1_5	Hybrid cars are an important step in the right direction	 Hybrid cars are an important step in the right direction The technology backing 0-emission alternatives is not yet well established. In the interim before this technology scales, hybrid vehicles are a good investment. Any alternative that produces less emissions than ordinary gasoline vehicles is a good one. Hybrids meet this criteria, even if they are to be replaced in the future by fully electric and hydrogen cars. At the very least, hybrids are an important stepping stone in the right direction.
con_1_1	Hybrid cars still burn gasoline and emit greenhouse gases	 Hybrid cars still burn gasoline and emit greenhouse gases Hybrid cars still rely on gasoline as their primary form of propulsion. They have an electric motor (in addition to a gasoline engine), but this can only draw power, in various ways, from the gasoline engine. The hybrid only adds efficiency to the gasoline engine, instead of replacing it entirely. The hybrid car remains, therefore, a major emitter of greenhouse gases and a contributer to global warming. While it may contribute less to global warming, it still contributes significantly. If hybrids continue to be built in the coming decades, they will continue to contribute substantial to global warming into the middle of the century. This is unacceptable. At a time when we must respond decisively to global warming, investing in cars that continue to contribute negatively to global warming is the wrong course of action, particularly when 0-emission alternatives are available.  
con_1_2	Hybrid cars are too mild a solution to global warming	 Hybrid cars are too mild a solution to global warming Global warming is a global crisis. It requires an immediate, dramatic response. Yet, hybrids are a half measure. They reduce emissions only slightly, moving cars from a terrible contributer to global warming a notch down to a bad contributor. Instead of supporting hybrid cars, full measures must be taken with immediate moves to electric and/or hydrogen vehicles, which emit no greenhouse gases from the tail-pipe. 
con_1_3	Hybrids distract from and delay developing 0-emission cars	 Hybrids distract from and delay developing 0-emission cars "Hybrid Cars: A Troubled Future?". Scitizen. 3 Mar. 2008 - "we suggest that the adoption of hybrid vehicles might slow down the development of more sustainable fuel-cell or high performance battery-powered electric vehicles."
con_1_4	Hybrids make us think we're doing enough to solve global warming	 Hybrids make us think we're doing enough to solve global warming Hybrid cars make us think we're doing enough to fight global warming. While we think we are being "green" by driving hybrids, in fact, we are still burning gasoline in the vehicle and contributing significantly to global warming. This generates complacency among the public and politicians, and reduces the urgency of finding truly 0-emission alternatives.  
con_1_5	Manufacturing hybrids releases comparatively more greenhouse gases	 Manufacturing hybrids releases comparatively more greenhouse gases Kelly Cunningham. "The Case Against Hybrid Cars" - "To understand the hybrid, truly, you must observe it's manufacture from start to finish. To make the massive battery found in the typical hybrid, nickel must be smelted- the fumes and byproducts and waste produced in the initial smelt is massive. The area in Ontario where the initial smelting for the Toyota Prius batteries occurs has become barren and scarred and lifeless in the less than two decades that the smelting plant has been situated there...Just the shipping involved in the early life of a hybrid battery is horribly pollutive- oil-powered ships, cargo planes and deisel trucks all over the world constantly run, devoted to the task of making more ecologically sound vehicles."
headline_2	Batteries: Are hybrid batteries environmentally friendly?
pro_2_1	New hybrid car batteries are much safer for the environment	 New hybrid car batteries are much safer for the environment Today most Hybrid car batteries are one of two types: (1) nickel metal hydride, or (2) lithium ion; both are regarded as more environmentally friendly than lead-based batteries (which constitute the bulk of car batteries today). "Jim Kliesch, author of the 'Green Book: The Environmental Guide to Cars and Trucks' told HybridCars.com, 'There are many types of batteries. Some are far more toxic than others. While batteries like lead acid or nickel cadmium are incredibly bad for the environment, the toxicity levels and environmental impact of nickel metal hydride batteries—the type currently used in hybrids—are much lower.'"[2].
con_2_1	Hybrid vehicle batteries are a burden to deal with	 Hybrid vehicle batteries are a burden to deal with Kelly Cunningham. "The case against hybrid cars". Helium - "at the end of their lives, Escalades can be crushed, recycled and smelted into new products. The hybrid battery, having undergone such intense refinement, must be recycled properly by the manufacturer. The car is therefore very costly to dispose of in terms of resources and if people are lazy about doing so and the hybrids end up in junkyards, the potential toxicity to the disposal area is deadly. If the car only lasts 100,000 miles, then, how long before these noxious substances are improperly discarded in large quantities and begin to further destruct land and groundwater?"
headline_3	Economics: Are hybrid vehicles economically sensible?
pro_3_1	Fuel-efficient hybrid vehicles are competitive in the markets	 Fuel-efficient hybrid vehicles are competitive in the markets "The Pros and Cons of Hybrid Vehicles". Green Living Lifestyles. - "The most apparent benefit of the hybrid vehicle is its fuel-efficient operation. Sure, you still have to make your visits to the gas station, but the advantage is that you will do so less often. Because of the hybrid vehicle’s electric motor, the energy your hybrid produces is much cleaner. In addition, your hybrid will automatically shut off the gasoline engine during stops or when your car is idling. That is why these cars are so quiet when you park or are at a stoplight! The electric motor kicks in and saves some fuel from being used. Therefore, if you commute to work or are in traffic quite a bit, this feature will help save some money on gasoline."
pro_3_2	Higher gasoline prices favor fuel-efficient hybrids	 Higher gasoline prices favor fuel-efficient hybrids Daniel Gross. "Blue-Collar PriusHybrid cars aren't just for smug yuppies anymore." Slate. 9 Apr. 2008 - "the rising cost of oil and the current recession, which started among subprime consumers and is steadily eating its way up the economic ladder, may combine to change the hybrid vehicle's image from a white-collar status symbol to a blue-collar money-saver."
con_3_1	Hybrid cars rely on waning gasoline supplies so can't survive long-term.	Hybrid cars rely on waning gasoline supplies so can't survive long-term. Hybrid vehicles are still oriented around the gasoline engine. Oil and gasoline supplies, however, will disappear at some point in the future. Hybrid gasoline-electric vehicles, therefore, cannot be a long-term solution. They are also, in this manner, a poor long-term investment.
con_3_2	Hybrid vehicles cost a lot more, but do the same job.	Hybrid vehicles cost a lot more, but do the same job. While hybrid vehicles may be slightly better for the environment, they cost a considerable amount more than normal vehicles. The fact is, hybrid vehicles run just as well as all other vehicles and do exacly the same job. They just cost more. Anyone wanting to save money would be silly to buy a hybrid car - all other cars work just as well.
con_3_3	Hybrids are more complicated, which has has costs	 Hybrids are more complicated, which has has costs "Hybrid Cars -- Pros and Cons". Physorg. - "All this new technology comes at a price: a hybrid car is complex and expensive. It has two motors and all the ancillary systems to manage them plus a heavy battery and a regeneration system used to produce electricity during breaking. All of these systems must work together, adding complexity. While cars and, just as importantly, the computers that control them, have become more reliable, they still suffer from failures. So owners of hybrids can expect more time in the shop and larger repair bills." 
con_3_4	Hybrid batteries and cars are built to last only 100,000 miles	 Hybrid batteries and cars are built to last only 100,000 miles This is a very small number of miles compared to ordinary gasoline vehicles, which last around 300,000 miles. This means that one individual would have to purchase three hybrids to obtain the same length of life of a regular gasoline vehicle. This is three-times the cost for the same value. And, even if owners don't want to keep a car for over 100,000 miles, the net effect to the economy is that hybrids live one-third as long and are nearly three times as costly to individuals and the economy. 
con_3_5	Hybrids are more efficient largely because they have smaller engines.	Hybrids are more efficient largely because they have smaller engines. Hybrids may indeed be more efficient and deliver more miles per gallon, but this is true of any car which, like a hybrid, has a smaller engine. Hybrid vehicles are also more efficient simply because of things like tier-type, but these things can be done with other cars too. 
headline_4	Noise: Do hybrids cut down on noise pollution? Is this a safety hazard?
pro_4_1	Hybrid vehicles reduce noise pollution	 Hybrid vehicles reduce noise pollution Bill Kwong, a spokesman for Toyota Motor Sales USA: "One of the many benefits of the Prius, besides excellent fuel economy and low emissions, is quiet performance. Not only does it not pollute the air, it doesn't create noise pollution."[3]
pro_4_2	Hybrid vehicles could have noise-making devices for safety.	Hybrid vehicles could have noise-making devices for safety. If it is a serious public safety concern that hybrids make less noise than ordinary gasoline vehicles, it is possible to fit them with modest noise-making devices. This would be simple and inexpensive. Bill Kwong, a spokesman for Toyota Motor Sales USA: "Any kind of audio device is going to be relatively inexpensive." 
con_4_1	Quiet hybrids are a risk to those that can't hear them coming	 Quiet hybrids are a risk to those that can't hear them coming Ben Nuckols. "Hybrid cars criticized for being too quiet". Associated Press. 3 Oct. 2007 - "Gas-electric hybrid vehicles, the status symbol for the environmentally conscientious, are coming under attack from a constituency that doesn't drive: the blind.
headline_5	Performance: Do hybrid vehicles perform well?
pro_5_1	Hybrids actually have more power than gasoline vehicles	 Hybrids actually have more power than gasoline vehicles Ed Hunt. "Why hybrid cars are here to stay". Christian Science Monitor. 4 Apr. 2002 - "the best-kept secret of hybrid-electric vehicles is that this technology can have performance advantages in addition to better mileage...The reason you never hear about hybrids winning Formula 1 races is because the international sanctioning body banned the technology. Hybrid cars would have had an unfair advantage on the track because the electric motors would have given them bursts of extra power."  
con_5_1	Power of hybrids is senseless in the face of global warming.	"Power" of hybrids is senseless in the face of global warming. Hybrids may have good "power" and performance. Yet, this should not be seen as a significant advantage over such alternatives as electric and hydrogen vehicles (and, it's debatable whether hybrids actually have superior performance to the main alternatives). If, for the sake of argument, we were to allow that hybrids have superior performance, the question is whether we should give this argument any weight? No. The moral priority at this time is to combat global warming, not uphold the showy, unecessary, and even more wasteful power/performance of hybrid/gasoline vehicles. Fighting global warming, not performance, is the clear moral priority in modern times.
headline_6	Practicality: Are hybrid vehicles practical?
pro_6_1	Hybrid vehicle owners unlikely to replace batteries	 Hybrid vehicle owners unlikely to replace batteries "The Pros and Cons of Hybrid Vehicles". Green Living Lifestyles. - "Despite rumours to the contrary, hybrid owners will most likely never have to replace the expensive battery in their vehicles. The reason is that the warranties for hybrids last a long time, usually 100,000 miles or ten years, whichever comes first. How many people actually keep their cars for that long? Most likely, the hybrid will be traded in for a newer model a few years down the road."
pro_6_2	Operating a hybrid is the same as a regular gasoline vehicle.	Operating a hybrid is the same as a regular gasoline vehicle. Owners of hybrids need not change their behavior in any way when driving hybrid electric vehicles. These vehicles still take gasoline from stations and operate, from the driver's stand-point, in exactly the same way as ordinary gasoline vehicles. This makes hybrids easy for consumers to adopt. 
con_6_1	Hybrids are only built to last a paltry 100,000 miles.	Hybrids are only built to last a paltry 100,000 miles. This is a very small number of miles compared to ordinary gasoline vehicles, which last around 300,000 miles. This means that an individual would have to more frequently bother with purchasing a new hybrid vehicle. And, of course, they would have to spend much more money over time.
headline_7	Vs. electric vehicles: How do hybrids compare with electric vehicles?
pro_7_1	Hybrid vehicles have more power/performance than hybrids.	Hybrid vehicles have more "power"/performance than hybrids. Hybrid vehicles, by still utilizing gasoline, have greater power and performance than electric vehicles. 
pro_7_2	Hybrid vehicles have greater driving range than electric cars.	Hybrid vehicles have greater driving range than electric cars. Hybrid vehicles can drive hundreds of miles, some say between 500 and 800, on a single tank of gas. This compares favorably against electric vehicles, which, limited by battery technology, can typically drive only around 100 miles before requiring a recharge. This is unfortunate problem for buyers, and until the range of electric vehicles improves, people will simply not buy them in great numbers.
pro_7_3	Both hybrids and electric vehicles should be pursued.	Both hybrids and electric vehicles should be pursued. There is no reason to pursue one or the other. Both hybrids and electrics should be pursued simultaneously. 
pro_7_4	Hybrids are more economical than electric cars.	Hybrids are more economical than electric cars. Hybrids are slightly more developed at this stage than electric cars. They are, largely for this reason, more economical. 
pro_7_5	Hybrid don't have to be plugged in like electric cars.	Hybrid don't have to be plugged in like electric cars. While electric cars need to be frequently plugged in, this is not the case with hybrid vehicles. Hybrids are, therefore, less of a hassle.
con_7_1	Electric vehicles combat global warming more aggressively than hybrids.	Electric vehicles combat global warming more aggressively than hybrids. Electric vehicles are 0-emission vehicles. Hybrid vehicles, conversely, still burn gasoline or deisel and emit significant amounts of greenhouse gases, albeit less than ordinary gasoline vehicles. Electric vehicles are, therefore, a more aggressive response to global warming, at a time when the crisis requires such decisive measures.
con_7_2	The performance of hybrids is unrelated to global warming.	The "performance" of hybrids is unrelated to global warming. Hybrids may have a "power" and performance advantage over electric cars (although this is debatable). If we assume that they do, though, is this something that should be seen as significant? No. The moral priority at this time is to combat global warming, not uphold the showy, unecessary, and even more wasteful power/performance of hybrid/gasoline vehicles.
con_7_3	Hybrid cars are simply a way for oil companies to maintain profits.	Hybrid cars are simply a way for oil companies to maintain profits. Electric cars do not use petroleum products. They are, therefore, a major threat to oil companies. For this reason, as is argued in the film "Who killed the electric car?", electric cars have been suppressed as an alternative form of transportation. This is why General Motor's EV1 was literally crushed out of existence. If governments and companies actually gave electric vehicles a chance (and possibly provided them with encouragement and subsidies), they would be entirely competitive in the market place.
con_7_4	Plugging-in you car at night is easer than pumping gas.	Plugging-in you car at night is easer than pumping gas. Owners of electric cars generally have to plug them in every night in their garage. This takes two seconds, and does not require that the owner attend to the fuel gauge. It compares favorably to going to a gas station (an extra trip) and physically pumping gas, which requires waiting until the tank is filled. Plugging-in your vehicle requires less time and is more convenient.  
headline_8	Vs. hydrogen cars: How do hybrids compare with hydrogen cars?
pro_8_1	Hydrogen cars are a long way away; hybrids are here now	 Hydrogen cars are a long way away; hybrids are here now "More hydrogen hype. Hybrid cars ARE the future". SoulTek. 27 Dec. 2004 - "While the media, big business, even Bush, have promoted the possibilities of the hydrogen economy, potential problems of such an economy are rarely mentioned...The idea of the hydrogen economy has been around for decades, but the reality of the hydrogen economy is still decades away." 
con_8_1	Hydrogen cars combat global warming more aggressively than hybrids.	Hydrogen cars combat global warming more aggressively than hybrids. Hydrogen fuel cell cars are 0-emission vehicles. They utilize only electricity to create hydrogen and/or hydrogen fuel-cells, which emits only water when used in a car. Hybrid vehicles, by comparison, still burn gasoline or diesel and emit greenhouse gases and contribute to global warming. Hydrogen vehicles are, therefore, a more aggressive response to the global warming crisis. Such aggressive measures are needed in the face of this crisis. Half-measures, such as hybrid vehicles, are less welcome. 
