title	Electric vehicles
question	Should electric cars be a priority in plans to fight global warming?
headline_1	Emissions/global warming: Are electric cars helpful in fighting global warming?
pro_1_1	Electric cars can slash greenhouse gas emissions	 Electric cars can slash greenhouse gas emissions. A July 2007 study by the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) and the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) concludes that, by 2050, broad acceptance of PHEVs could cut up to 6.12 billion tons of greenhouse gases each year—approximately 2.5 times the amount currently emitted by power plants. The study concluded that it is possible for 42 percent of the total U.S. auto fleet to be PHEVs by 2030—and nearly doubles that by 2050.[1]
pro_1_2	Even coal-powered electric cars pollute less than gasoline cars	 Even coal-powered electric cars pollute less than gasoline cars. "Coal Into Cars: The Good, the Bad, the Ugly". Plugs and Cars 19 Aug. 2007 - "About half our electricity comes from coal, and that will change, at best, slowly as we move to renewables. But we need to keep in mind that when we're talking about cars, even coal-generated electricity results in lower greenhouse gas emissions compared with petroleum. The EPRI-NRDC Plug-in Hybrid Study makes clear that under every scenario studied, every region will yield reductions in greenhouse gases as we increase the number of plug-in cars. That includes the worst, most coal dependent areas."
pro_1_3	Clean coal can generate cleaner electricity for electric cars.	"Clean coal" can generate cleaner electricity for electric cars. Because coal is the predominant electricity source, it is foreseeable that it will remain a supplier of electricity to electric cars for some time. But, as "clean coal" becomes the norm among the remaining coal plants around the world, coal-generated electricity will be significantly cleaner, and so its use in electric cars will be cleaner as well. 
pro_1_4	Electric cars will get cleaner with more renewable sources	 Electric cars will get cleaner with more renewable sources "Coal Into Cars: The Good, the Bad, the Ugly". Plugs and Cars 19 Aug. 2007 - "as our efforts to green the grid take effect, and that's happening already, plug-in cars yield even greater reductions in GHGs. And ultimately, you can get no cleaner car than an electric car using wind or solar generated electricity."
pro_1_5	Electric cars can be combined with regenerative braking.	Electric cars can be combined with regenerative braking. Regenerative braking systems generate and store electricity from the action of braking a car. Instead of break pads slowing a vehicle and converting the lost energy into kinetic heat energy, regenerative braking systems slow the car via a generator that converts momentum into electricity. This electricity can help re-charge the battery of an electric vehicle. These systems increase the energy efficiency of electric cars, which is very important to lowering emissions and fighting global warming. 
con_1_1	Electric cars will have a negligible impact on emissions	 Electric cars will have a negligible impact on emissions. "Electric Car Sparks Debate". National Center for Policy Analysis. 2000 - "The electric car is no solution to smog in California's cities, according to a new report published in the journal Environmental Science and Technology. The study by Carnegie-Mellon University economist Lester Lave and three engineers attempted to assess the probable impact of 500,000 electric cars on the air quality of Los Angeles and New York City.
con_1_2	Electric cars use coal-electricity and add to global warming	 Electric cars use coal-electricity and add to global warming. Coal is the primary source of electricity globally. In the United States, it accounts for 50% of all electricity production. This means that electric cars will rely mainly on coal as their source of electricity. Because coal is the worst emitter of greenhouse gases, electric cars will actually add to the global warming crisis.
con_1_3	Electric cars increase local coal emissions	 Electric cars increase local coal emissions "Electric Cars Could Slash Global Warming by 2050 (but Harm Our Air)". Popular Mechanics. 19 July 2007 - As a result of using using electric cars powered by coal-electricity, "in regions with heavy vehicle use, ozone levels and particulate matter could actually increase in areas near power plants." 
con_1_4	Electric cars are uneconomical; can't impact global warming	 Electric cars are uneconomical; can't impact global warming Vinod Khosla, a well-known venture capitalist and one of the most prolific investors in green technologies, said in 2007, "Are electric cars going to make a difference any time soon? No. Are they going to be material? No. If something costs $2,000 more, nobody buys it. It’s not going to be reach the average person in Mississippi. That’s what I call my Mississippi test."[2]
con_1_5	Public transportation is a better idea than electric cars	 Public transportation is a better idea than electric cars. Public transportation helps reduce energy consumption in general. Electric cars simply transform energy consumption from one form to another.   
headline_2	Economics: Are electric cars economical?
pro_2_1	Electric vehicles are more resilient to price pressures.	Electric vehicles are more resilient to price pressures. Electricity is a form of energy that remains within the continent in which it is produced. It is subsequently unaffected by international price fluctuations. This compares favorably against oil, which is entirely subject to international petroleum markets and the whims of OPEC. 
pro_2_2	Electric cars often achieve 90% energy conversion efficiency.	Electric cars often achieve 90% energy conversion efficiency. This level of efficiency can be achieved over the full range of speeds and power outputs. This is very favorable, saving energy and money. 
pro_2_3	Electric vehicles are lighter so require less energy.	Electric vehicles are lighter so require less energy. Because electric vehicles are lighter, they require less energy to travel the same distance, which means they save energy and money.
pro_2_4	Electric car maintenance costs have fallen	 Electric car maintenance costs have fallen "Learn Pros And Cons About The All Electric Car". Article Inspector. - "the good news is that over the years the repair costs have significantly come down due to manufacturers better understanding the technology, and have become much more adept to building reliable parts."
con_2_1	Electric cars are too expensive to be viable	 Electric cars are too expensive to be viable Vinod Khosla, a well-known venture capitalist and one of the most prolific investors in green technologies, said in 2007, "Are electric cars going to make a difference any time soon? No. Are they going to be material? No. If something costs $2,000 more, nobody buys it. It’s not going to be reach the average person in Mississippi. That’s what I call my Mississippi test."[3]
con_2_2	Electric car batteries are usually very expensive.	Electric car batteries are usually very expensive. Electric car batteries are usually the most expensive component. More recent battery technologies have come particularly expensive. Even older lead-acid batteries have become more expensive due to increases in the material costs of lead. 
headline_3	Batteries: Are electric car batteries viable?
pro_3_1	Electric car battery technology and costs are improving rapidly	 Electric car battery technology and costs are improving rapidly. Arthur St. Antoine. "Hydrogen, Fuel Cells, and Reality". Motor Trend. - "Among the most promising [electric car batteries] are new-generation lithium-ion or lithium-polymer batteries that could offer vehicle ranges of 300 miles or more."
pro_3_2	New electric car batteries allow for charging in minutes.	New electric car batteries allow for charging in minutes. In 2007, Altairnano's NanoSafe batteries are rechargeable in several minutes. A NanoSafe cell can be charged to around 95% charge capacity in approximately 10 minutes. This has significant implications for the construction of recharging stations (like refueling stations for gasoline cars); people can drive their cars in and out in a reasonable 10 minutes.
pro_3_3	Electric vehicles need not be able to quickly recharge.	Electric vehicles need not be able to quickly recharge. Most people do not usually require fast-recharging because they have enough time at night to plug their car in and re-charge. Fast-recharging, therefore, is not a major constraint on the use of the electric car. 
pro_3_4	Electric vehicles can recharge everywhere the electric grid exists.	Electric vehicles can recharge everywhere the electric grid exists. Electric vehicles can be plugged in at home, in parking garages, at power stations, and essentially anywhere else the power-grid exists. This compares favorably to gasoline, hydrogen, biofuel, and natural gas cars, which can only be recharged at fueling stations.
con_3_1	It takes too long to recharge electric vehicles.	It takes too long to recharge electric vehicles. It can take many hours to recharge an electric vehicle. This is much less convenient than the quick refills that characterize gasoline, biofuel, natural gas, and hydrogen vehicles.
con_3_2	Few utilities can support widespread quick-charging	 Few utilities can support widespread quick-charging "The Electric Car Debate Continues". New York Times. 18 Sept. 1994 - "Few utilities can support widespread quick-charging on top of other power requirements during peak demand...refueling an electric vehicle in the same time as a conventional one would require 600 kilowatts, more than 10 times the power at an average house."
con_3_3	Not safe to let citizens do electric car quick-charging	 Not safe to let citizens do electric car quick-charging "The Electric Car Debate Continues". New York Times. 18 Sept. 1994 - "Quick-charging of electric vehicles also requires current and voltage levels far beyond what the motoring public can safely handle."
headline_4	Electric grid: Are electric cars compatible with electric grids?
pro_4_1	Electric cars can utilize existing grid	 Electric cars can utilize existing grid "Why Electric Cars?". Who Killed the Electric Car? (Website). - "Electric cars can utilize the existing electric grid rather than require the development of a new, expensive energy infrastructure (as would be the case with hydrogen)." 
pro_4_2	Electric cars charge at night when electricity demand is low.	Electric cars charge at night when electricity demand is low. Electricity demand is lowest at night time. This is a great time, therefore, for electric cars to charge-up. Electric cars would, therefore, add electricity demand when the grid is capable of supplying it. For this reasons, electric cars will not strain the electric grid and may not force large grid upgrades. 
pro_4_3	Modernizing grid will accommodate new renewable electricity	 Modernizing grid will accommodate new renewable electricity.
con_4_1	Electric vehicles would place great strain on electric grids.	Electric vehicles would place great strain on electric grids. Electric cars consume a significant amount of electricity. A major expansion of electric cars would massively increase the amount of electricity demand. This would place great strains on existing electricity grids. Major, costly expansions of the electricity grid would be necessary. 
con_4_2	Electricity shortages in some regions make electric cars inadvisable	 Electricity shortages in some regions make electric cars inadvisable. There have been electricity shortages in many regions of the world, including the United States. Some of these shortages have resulted in electrical blackouts, such as the 2003 blackout in the northeastern United States. This makes it unadvisable to add such a massive electrical strain to the grid.
headline_5	Maintenance: Are electric cars reliable?
pro_5_1	Electric cars require less maintenance than gasoline vehicles.	Electric cars require less maintenance than gasoline vehicles. This is partly due to the fact that electric motors are simpler than gasoline engines. Electric cars, for instance, do not require multiple gears to match power curves. This removes the need for gearboxes and torque converters. This, and the fact that electric cars do not have complicated piston-engines, removes even the need for oil changes. 
pro_5_2	Regenerative braking systems reduce break-pedal wear and tear.	Regenerative braking systems reduce break-pedal wear and tear. Instead of braking, it is possible, in electric cars, to engage a generator to slow a car. This reduces wear and tear on break pads, reducing the number of times that brake pads must be replaced. 
con_5_1	Electric car batteries all must be replaced eventually.	Electric car batteries all must be replaced eventually. All batteries die at some point and must be replaced. This can be costly and can entail environmental risks.
headline_6	Performance: Do electric cars perform well?
pro_6_1	Electric cars can accelerate faster than gasoline cars.	Electric cars can accelerate faster than gasoline cars. Electric cars actually have a much higher acceleration-rate than gasoline cars. This is because they have a high level of torque that has no relation to the thermal curves of gasoline. This is why electric cars do not require gear boxes. And, it should be noted, the need to shift gears slows the acceleration of a car. 
pro_6_2	Electric car power and speed can be precisely controlled.	Electric car power and speed can be precisely controlled. Electric cars have a very precise energy output controlled by the driver. This compares favorably relative to gasoline cars, which can have more abrupt reactions from the combustion engine through the accelerator. 
pro_6_3	Electric vehicles vibrate less for a smoother ride.	Electric vehicles vibrate less for a smoother ride. Because electric cars do not have combustion engines, they have less vibration in the cabin. This improves the driving experience of electric cars. 
con_6_1	Electric vehicles have a limited range.	Electric vehicles have a limited range. This is due to the low energy density of batteries, compared to the fuel of internal combustion engined vehicles.
con_6_2	Electric vehicles take a long time to recharge.	Electric vehicles take a long time to recharge. It takes many hours to fully charge an electric vehicle battery. This compares unfavorably to the refueling time required by internal combustion engine vehicles.
headline_7	Social: What are the social pros and cons of electric cars?
pro_7_1	Regenerative braking systems reduce braking dusts.	Regenerative braking systems reduce braking dusts. Braking dust is a problem in cities, because it has a foul smell, settles on the streets and other objects, and even makes it more difficult to breath. Regenerative braking in electric cars helps reduce these problems.
pro_7_2	Electric vehicles produce less noise than internal combustion engines.	Electric vehicles produce less noise than internal combustion engines. This is due to the fact that electric motors do not involve combustion. Quieter electric cars bring more calm and serenity to communities and cities. 
con_7_1	Silent electric cars can be a safety hazard.	Silent electric cars can be a safety hazard. Pedestrians benefit from the noise created by combustion engines, which provides greater warning of oncoming vehicles. This can prevent a pedestrian from stepping into a street in front of an oncoming vehicle and getting hit and killed. 
con_7_2	Lighter electric cars can be more vulnerable in collisions.	Lighter electric cars can be more vulnerable in collisions. The key to attaining acceptable range with an electric car is to reduce the power required to drive the car, so far as is practical. This pushes the design towards low weight. In a collision the occupants of a heavy vehicle will, on average, suffer fewer and less serious injuries than the occupants of a lighter vehicle. 
headline_8	Vs. hybrids: Are electric cars a better alternative to hybrids?
pro_8_1	Electric cars fight global warming better than hybrids.	Electric cars fight global warming better than hybrids. Dan Lashof, science director of the Climate Center for NRDC, said in 2007, "Next-generation PHEVs can reduce global warming and air pollution much more than regular hybrids—if we’re taking simultaneous action to clean the electric grid."[4]
con_8_1	Hybrid vehicles do not overburden the electric grid.	Hybrid vehicles do not overburden the electric grid. A major complaint regarding electric cars is that, if they were deployed on a large scale, they would substantially increase the demand for electricity and place a major strain on electricity grids. By relying on a more efficient use of gasoline and regenerative braking, hybrids do not strain electric grids.
headline_9	Foreign oil: Will electric cars help relieve foreign oil dependencies?
pro_9_1	Electric cars reduce dependencies on foreign oil	 Electric cars reduce dependencies on foreign oil. "Why Electric Cars?". Who Killed the Electric Car? (Website). - "By using domestically-generated electricity rather than relying on foreign oil, we can achieve energy independence and will no longer need to engage in costly wars in the Middle East to secure an energy supply."
con_9_1	Domestic electricity is required for electric cars to replace gasoline.	Domestic electricity is required for electric cars to replace gasoline. The only way to relieve foreign oil dependencies is if a domestic supply of electricity exists. If this supply is non-existent, then there is no real possibility to power electric cars and move away from foreign oil dependencies.
