title	Natural gas
question	Is natural gas a good energy source for the 21st century?
headline_1	Emissions: Is natural gas clean when burned for energy?
pro_1_1	Natural gas can replace fossil fuels that emit more greenhouse gases	 Natural gas can replace fossil fuels that emit more greenhouse gases "Natural Gas -- A Fossil Fuel". Energy Information Administration. - "Natural gas burns more cleanly than other fossil fuels.  It has fewer emissions of sulfur, carbon, and nitrogen than coal or oil, and when it is burned, it leaves almost no ash particles. Being a clean fuel is one reason that the use of natural gas, especially for electricity generation, has grown so much and is expected to grow even more in the future."
pro_1_2	Natural gas can smooth transition to renewable energy	 Natural gas can smooth transition to renewable energy Natural gas is seen by many of its supporters as a cleaner alternative to gasoline and coal, but in the context of it acting as a segue fuel onto even cleaner alternatives. The supporters of the Broadwater LNG terminal in Long Island Sound make this case: "Natural gas play a vital role in providing a bridge from traditional fossil fuels to a renewable energy future".
pro_1_3	Emissions from natural gas can be filtered out	 Emissions from natural gas can be filtered out "New Membrane Strips Carbon Dioxide From Natural Gas Faster And Better". ScienceDaily. 14 Oct. 2007 — "A modified plastic material greatly improves the ability to separate global warming-linked carbon dioxide from natural gas as the gas is prepared for use, according to engineers at The University of Texas at Austin who have analyzed the new plastic's performance." 
con_1_1	Natural gas is a fossil fuel that worsens global warming	 Natural gas is a fossil fuel that worsens global warming While natural gas may be "cleaner" than burning other fossil fuels such as coal and gasoline, it is still a "dirty" energy resource, releasing significant amounts of CO2 into the atmosphere. For an equivalent amount of heat energy, burning natural gas produces 70% as much carbon dioxide as burning petroleum and 55% as much as burning coal.[1] Natural gas is, therefore, only marginally cleaner than other fossil fuels. Burning it still contributes significantly to global warming. It should not, therefore, be held out as a solution. 
con_1_2	Natural gas will lower fossil fuel prices and increase consumption.	Natural gas will lower fossil fuel prices and increase consumption. Natural gas will simply relieve demand pressures on coal and petroleum and, subsequently, decrease prices. This will only make it easier for people to buy and consume oil and coal. Natural gas will not, therefore, replace coal and petroleum. It will only add to the absolute amount of fossil fuels we are burning, and greenhouse gases we are emitting.
con_1_3	Methane in natural gas is a major contributor to global warming	 Methane in natural gas is a major contributor to global warming. Methane is a much worse greenhouse gas than C02. Methane is very prominent within "natural gas". This is of concern because the drilling and transportation of natural gas will inevitably lead to leaks and large-scale "spills" that will release this highly harmful gas into the atmosphere and contribute substantially to global warming. These risks should not be taken.
con_1_4	0-emission renewables are a superior alternative to natural gas	 0-emission renewables are a superior alternative to natural gas Samantha Rose. "The questionable benefit of natural gas vehicles". TG Daily. 14 Aug 2008 - "On the surface, natural gas cars seem alright, but the topic becomes a bit different when these cars are competing against “zero emission” alternatives such as electric cars that are powered utilizing a solar grid."
con_1_5	Natural gas supply chain emits substantial greenhouse gases	 Natural gas supply chain emits substantial greenhouse gases
headline_2	Ecosystems: Does natural gas drilling/extraction/use jeopardize ecosystems?
pro_2_1	Technology minimizes environmental footprint of natural gas	 Technology minimizes environmental "footprint" of natural gas "Natural Gas - A Fossil Fuel". Energy Information Administration - "Exploring and drilling for natural gas will always have some impact on land and marine habitats. But new technologies have greatly reduced the number and size of areas disturbed by drilling, sometimes called "footprints." Satellites, global positioning systems, remote sensing devices, and 3-D and 4-D seismic technologies, make it possible to discover natural gas reserves while drilling fewer wells. Plus, the use of horizontal and directional drilling make it possible for a single well to produce gas from much bigger areas than in the past."
con_2_1	Natural gas drilling leaves a large environmental footprint	 Natural gas drilling leaves a large environmental "footprint" Any process of exploring for natural gas and drilling for it leaves a significant environmental "footprint". This is in the infrastructure and utilities that must be laid down for natural gas as well as the act of drilling itself.
con_2_2	Waste from natural gas extraction jeopardizes water resources	 Waste from natural gas extraction jeopardizes water resources Mr. Gennaro, chairman of the Council’s Environmental Protection Committee responding to the concept of drilling for natural gas in the Marcellus Shale formation by saying, “no” and “no.”...This is an activity that is completely and utterly inconsistent with a drinking water supply. This cannot happen. This would destroy the New York City watershed, and for what? For short-term gains on natural gas?"[2]
con_2_3	Natural gas is a nonrenewable fossil fuel.	Natural gas is a nonrenewable fossil fuel. Nonrenewable fossil fuels are inherently primitive and destructive to the environment. They involve extracting a fuel source from the ground instead of extracting it from renewable sources. This is unsustainable and should be avoided.
headline_3	Economics: Is natural gas economically superior?
pro_3_1	Natural gas is one of the cheapest ways to go green	 Natural gas is one of the cheapest ways to go "green" National Ocean Industries Association: "About Natural Gas". - "how much does it costs to heat your home with natural gas? Compared to other energy sources, natural gas is a good buy. Heating with natural gas is cheaper than any other major heating source. It is nearly four times cheaper than electricity when you use resistance heat and is 25 percent less expensive than electric heat pumps."
pro_3_2	Natural gas is abundant and readily available	 Natural gas is abundant and readily available American Gas Association: "This winter's supply of natural gas is abundant. Are we challenged for this winter? Not from the standpoint of reliably supplying customer demand."[3] 
pro_3_3	Abundant natural gas helps lower energy prices	 Abundant natural gas helps lower energy prices Chris McGill, managing director of policy analysis for the American Gas Association, said in 2007, "Abundant natural gas resources help to keep energy costs affordable for U.S. consumers--as long as producers are allowed access to those resources".[4]
con_3_1	Natural gas is difficult to transport and store.	Natural gas is difficult to transport and store. The major difficulty in the use of natural gas is transportation and storage. This is due to its low density. It is generally less efficient and more expensive to transport and store sources of energy that have a low level of latent energy per cubic meter. There is less return on each dollar spent in transporting and storing natural gas. Many existing pipelines in North America are close to reaching their capacity, prompting some politicians representing colder areas to speak publicly of potential shortages.
con_3_2	LNG and CNG are expensive methods of transporting/storing natural gas.	LNG and CNG are expensive methods of transporting/storing natural gas. Pipelines cannot be built effectively across oceans. For this reason, it is necessary to transport natural gas by ship. For the above reasons, it is uneconomical to keep gas in its natural state, so the only viable alternatives are to liquify (LNG) or compress (CNG) the gas. This allows more of it to be transported in each voyage. Yet, liquefying and compressing natural gas for transportation, and then de-liquifying or de-compressing it for use, is an inefficient approach. It requires extra technology, process, management, and time that is not required in other alternative sources of energy.
headline_4	Safety: Is natural gas safe?
pro_4_1	Natural gas is less flammable and explosive than other fuels	Natural gas is less flammable and explosive than other fuels Natural gas is a safer fuel than gasoline and diesel fuels. This is related to the fact that it has a limited range of flammability; it requires the correct mixture of air and fuel to burn—somewhere in the 5 to 15 percent range, and an ignition temperature of approximately 1100 degrees F. This compares favorably to gasoline and diesel fuels which both have lower concentrations of flammability and lower temperatures of ignition.[5]
pro_4_2	Natural gas leaks tend to dissipate, reducing risks.	Natural gas leaks tend to dissipate, reducing risks. Natural gas is lighter than air, so if there is a leak it will tend to dissipate. Propane is much more risky because it is heavier than air, so pools into explosive pockets. 
pro_4_3	Natural gas has a strong record of safety	 Natural gas has a strong record of safety Natural gas already has a long history of extraction, transport, and use in homes and utilities. In that history, there are very few instances of safety issues, leaks, fires, or explosions. The safety record of the industry is very solid, and should be expected to remain so into the future.
pro_4_4	Natural gas safety regulations are very strong	Natural gas safety regulations are very strong Natural gas is already heavily regulated in terms of safety. These regulations have worked very well to virtually eliminate all major risks associated with the fuel. Any problems in regards to the safety of natural gas, however, can and should be addressed through further regulation.   
pro_4_5	Natural gas mines have sensors and equipment to improve safety.	Natural gas mines have sensors and equipment to improve safety. In mines, where methane seeping from rock formations has no odor, sensors are used, and mining apparatuses have been specifically developed to avoid ignition sources.
con_4_1	Natural gas leaks are a fire and explosion risk	 Natural gas leaks are a fire and explosion risk "Cleveland: Natural Gas Boom Has Hidden Danger". 2 May 2008 - "Our affiliate in Cleveland, Ohio is reporting on the hidden dangers of natural gas wells being drilled in residential neighborhoods...NewsChannel5 Chief Investigator Duane Pohlman interviews an elderly couple who lost their home after a massive natural gas explosion, which was traced to a new well located just down the road from their home." 
con_4_2	Odorless natural gas can escape detection risking fire/explosion.	Odorless natural gas can escape detection risking fire/explosion. Odorless natural gas can escape detection by smell, which means that a house, factory, pipes or other natural gas utilities can release and be filled with natural gas. A spark or flame can, subsequently, cause a major fire or explosion.
headline_5	Health: Is using natural gas healthy for humans?
pro_5_1	Natural gas is non-toxic.	Natural gas is non-toxic. Natural gas is a non-toxic gas. The presence of the gas in the air does not present any direct toxic risks to humans.
pro_5_2	Odors added to natural gas to enable human detection	 Odors added to natural gas to enable human detection "Why Natural Gas Is Dangerous". Alliant Energy - "When natural gas first comes out of the ground, you can’t see it or smell it. That’s why gas companies add a chemical that smells like rotten eggs to the gas to make even the smallest leaks easy to notice...Luckily, natural gas leaks are rare. Fires and explosions are even more uncommon – the rotten egg smell helps people get help quickly before anything bad happens."
con_5_1	Natural gas can be harmful and even poisonous to ingest	 Natural gas can be harmful and even poisonous to ingest "'Natural' gas may be harmful to your health". AEHA. - "AEHA-NS. and its coalition partners are investivaging the harmful effects of piper natural gas on environmentally induced illness/chemical sensitivity, asthma and allergies as part of the Environmental Assessment of the Sable Island Gas Project proposal....The effects of the transmission and use of piped natural gas upon persons with environmentally induced illness/chemical sensitivity (2), asthma or allergies can be significant and extremely harmful." 
con_5_2	Burning natural gas to heat home contaminates air quality	 Burning natural gas to heat home contaminates air quality "Home Gas Emissions". Gascape. - "With measuring criteria developed by EPA, the typical home burning natural gas produces more indoor pollution than any other source. It's not just the volume of contaminated gas that's important, it's also the content of hazardous chemcials and the lack of quality that exposes us to the most harm."
con_5_3	Odorless natural gas presents greater risk of ingestion.	Odorless natural gas presents greater risk of ingestion. Natural gas is colorless, tasteless, and oderless. Without any added odor, it can escape olfactory detection and be ingested by people. 
headline_6	Natural gas vehicles: Are natural gas vehicles a good idea?
pro_6_1	Natural gas vehicles reduce emissions, fight global warming	 Natural gas vehicles reduce emissions, fight global warming U.S. Department of Energy. "Natural Gas". - "Serving alternative fuel vehicles (AFVs), natural gas is clean burning and produces significantly fewer harmful emissions than reformulated gasoline."
pro_6_2	Natural gas vehicles are commercial viable now	 Natural gas vehicles are commercial viable now "Natural Gas Vehicles - A 'Now Solution' to Reducing Global Warming". IANGV 02 June 2003 - "The world-wide organization says vehicles using compressed natural gas (CNG) and liquefied natural gas (LNG) now total more than two million and are operating in more than 50 countries. "The natural gas vehicle industry is mature and commercially viable in many countries. More than 50 vehicle manufacturers are now producing factory-built natural gas vehicles," says the organisation’s New Zealand-based Secretary-General, Dr Garth Harris."
pro_6_3	Natural gas vehicle fuel tanks are very strong and safe	Natural gas vehicle fuel tanks are very strong and safe Christine & Scott Gable. "How Safe is Natural Gas?". About.com - "Natural gas vehicles are very safe, for not only do they have all the same standard safety equipment as conventional cars (passive restraints, air bags, head restraints and anti-lock brakes), but they are subjected to the same crash safety tests as well."
pro_6_4	Natural gas engines are as efficient as gasoline engines.	Natural gas engines are as efficient as gasoline engines. The energy efficiency of natural gas engines is equivalent to gasoline engines.
con_6_1	Natural gas hardly reduces emissions compared to gasoline and diesel.	Natural gas hardly reduces emissions compared to gasoline and diesel.  The Wall Street Journal quoted a California Energy Commission: "When natural gas replaces gasoline, greenhouse gases are reduced by just 20 to 30%. When natural gas is used instead of diesel in trucks, greenhouse gases are reduced just 10 to 20%. If diesel is almost comparable, then it makes more sense to fund that as a stop gap as that infrastructure is already in place."[6]
con_6_2	NGV's may reduce emissions, but still contribute to global warming	 NGV's may reduce emissions, but still contribute to global warming Natural gas vehicles run on natural gas, a fossil fuel, so emit significant amounts of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, albeit smaller amounts than gasoline-fueled cars (roughly 30% less). If our goal is to aggressively fight global warming, does it make sense to invest in slightly cleaner technologies, or fully 0-emission ones? If we are serious about combating global warming, we should be focusing our energies and investments solely on 0-emission electric vehicles. 
con_6_3	0-emissions vehicles superior to natural gas ones	 0-emissions vehicles superior to natural gas ones Samantha Rose. "The questionable benefit of natural gas vehicles". TG Daily. 14 Aug 2008 - "On the surface, natural gas cars seem alright, but the topic becomes a bit different when these cars are competing against “zero emission” alternatives such as electric cars that are powered utilizing a solar grid."
headline_7	LNG: What are the pros and cons of liquefied natural gas?
pro_7_1	Liquefied natural gas can be a good fuel for vehicles.	Liquefied natural gas can be a good fuel for vehicles. Vehicles require a fuel that is easily transportable and that is capable of working with existing or modified combustion engines. Liquefied natural gas is capable of this. This is particularly important in the context of the fact that one of the largest contributors to global warming is vehicles. Because LNG is capable of being used in vehicles, while many other "energy" sources are not (or less so), it is a very important "clean" alternative.
con_7_1	LNG tankers are vulnerable to terrorist attacks.	LNG tankers are vulnerable to terrorist attacks. LNG tankers are massive tankers with multiple large, highly-compressed liquid natural gas tanks on board. When entering a port, a tanker could be attacked by a boat carrying a large bomb, which could set off a massive series of explosions from the natural gas chambers. This could devastate a port city. Such risks should not be taken in the face of 21st century terrorism threats. 
headline_8	Home-heating: Is natural gas an important source of home-heating?
pro_8_1	Natural gas has very diverse applications in the home.	Natural gas has very diverse applications in the home. It can be used for heating, cooking, hot water, dryers, backup generator power, and many other applications. The diversity of its uses makes it a highly valuable fuel source that cannot be readily replaced.
pro_8_2	Gas appliances do not create unhealthy electrical fields in the home.	Gas appliances do not create unhealthy electrical fields in the home. Electrical appliances can create electrical fields that have negative effects on human health. This should be avoided.
pro_8_3	Natural gas is a better source of heat for cooking.	Natural gas is a better source of heat for cooking. Natural gas stoves are hotter than electrical stoves, so can boil water and cook foods faster and with greater control.
con_8_1	Natural gas greenhouse emissions outweigh its utility at home.	Natural gas greenhouse emissions outweigh its utility at home. The number one priority is the fight against global warming. While the utility of natural gas in the home has some importance, it is secondary to the importance of fighting global warming. Replacing natural gas with all-electric utilities in the home upholds the proper arrangement of priorities.
con_8_2	Natural gas requires a separate and special plumbing system.	Natural gas requires a separate and special plumbing system. Natural gas must have its own plumbing infrastructure in homes, buildings, cars, and gas stations that use it. This infrastructure does not yet really exist. Building and maintaining it would be expensive and would take time; time which, in the context of global warming, we may not have. 
