title	Solar energy
question	Should plans to fight global warming prioritize solar energy?
headline_1	Global warming: Is solar power key to reducing emissions and fighting global warming?
pro_1_1	Abundant solar energy can replace fossil fuels and slash emissions	 Abundant solar energy can replace fossil fuels and slash emissions Global warming is driven by the release of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. Solar energy emits none of these gases, and is abundant, so can dramatically slash greenhouse gas emissions and help reverse global warming. 
pro_1_2	Fast growing solar industry can dramatically cut emissions now	 Fast growing solar industry can dramatically cut emissions now The solar industry is competitive, bullish, and growing exponentially. BCC research believed it will grow from $13 billion currently to $32 billion in 2012. This means that solar energy is currently viable, and is replacing dirty forms of energy at an exponential pace now. This compares favorably to much more distant and uncertain forms of renewable energy. Why invest in these other renewables, when solar energy is ready to cut emissions exponentially starting now?
pro_1_3	Accounting for production energy, solar power still slashes emissions	 Accounting for production energy, solar power still slashes emissions The fundamental quantity here is the energy payback time, i.e. the time, after which the system will have produced enough energy to cover its own construction. For crystalline Silicon solar cells in central Europe energy payback time is around 4 years. With the usual guaranteed lifetime of 25 years, this leaves plenty of time for the c-Si cells to actually produce electricity.
pro_1_4	Producing solar cells need not use fossil fuel energy.	Producing solar cells need not use fossil fuel energy. While the production of solar cells does use energy, there is no need for this energy to come from fossil fuel sources. It can, in fact, come from solar power. Solar power can, therefore, produce solar panels, and be 100% 0-emission from production to electricity generation. It should also be noted that "back-up" sources of energy needed not be fossil-fuel based.
con_1_1	Solar power cannot produce enough energy to replace coal	 Solar power cannot produce enough energy to replace coal Coal is the primary fuel for generating electricity around the world. Solar power cannot realistically produce enough energy anytime soon to replace this massive source of electricity. It is incapable, therefore, of making a serious dent in coal-electricity production and the related greenhouse gas emissions. 
con_1_2	Solar cell production requires significant energy, adds emissions.	Solar cell production requires significant energy, adds emissions. The most commonly used material in photovoltaic solar energy systems is crystalline silicon. Using this material for solar applications requires that it be highly refined. This process uses a significant amount of energy, often derived from fossil fuels, which can offsets emissions reductions associated with solar energy. 
con_1_3	Inconsistent solar energy requires back-up sources (carbon-based).	Inconsistent solar energy requires back-up sources (carbon-based). Because solar energy cannot supply energy at night and is dependent on good weather, it requires back-up sources of energy to fill the gaps. These back-up sources are often coal-based, since coal is the predominant fuel driving electricity production. This means that solar power's inconsistency has negative consequences for the environment. 
headline_2	Environment/general: Is solar energy generally environmentally friendly?
pro_2_1	Solar energy does not damage air quality.	Solar energy does not damage air quality. It does not pollute our air by releasing carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxide, sulphur dioxide or mercury into the atmosphere like many traditional forms of electrical generation. 
pro_2_2	Solar power is the most direct form of using the sun's energy.	Solar power is the most direct form of using the sun's energy. Almost all modern sources of energy use the sun's energy, but in a very indirect way. Oil is the byproduct of organic matter that grows via the power of the sun. Wind energy is the product of the sun causing thermal variables in the earth's atmosphere. Yet, why not just exploit the sun's energy directly with photovoltaic cells? This is more efficient. 
pro_2_3	Solar energy is renewable.	Solar energy is renewable. Unlike carbon-based fuels and other non-renewable energy resources, solar energy will never run out for humans. This fact has very important implications. Solar energy can supply humans with an abundant amount of 0-emission energy thousands and even millions of years into the future.  
pro_2_4	Solar panals can be put in the desert.	Solar panals can be put in the desert.Solar panals can be put in the middle of the desert, to avoid clearing rainforests and arable land.
con_2_1	Solar panels contain cadmium, which is environmentally hazardous.	Solar panels contain cadmium, which is environmentally hazardous. Solar panels themselves contain cadmium, a silvery metal that is toxic in the environment. While solar panels are durable, eventually they will wear out and need to be disposed of. The toxins in these metals can subsequently be released into the environment.
con_2_2	Land-intensive solar power incentivizes clearing land, ecosystems	 Land-intensive solar power incentivizes clearing land, ecosystems Because the sun's rays are diffuse, solar panels must occupy substantial territory to generate any significant quantities of power. As a result, solar energy is land-intensive, and creates a pressure to clear land of trees and vegetation to make way for solar panels. Owners of solar panels on home rooftops may also have an incentive to cut-down trees that are blocking solar panels from the sun's rays. This is a significant ecological threat. 
headline_3	Environment/land-use: Does solar energy use a reasonable amount of land?
pro_3_1	Solar energy uses less land than coal	 Solar energy uses less land than coal "Solar land use: less than coal". Grist. 26 May 2008 - "Nevada Solar One takes up about 400 acres, mostly for mirrors and heat engines. You would have to mine about 5,300 acres to feed a coal-fired powered plant producing the same amount of electricity. Even acre for acre, I'll take Solar One's pleasant campus over a coal mine." 
pro_3_2	Decentralized solar power does not take up much land.	Decentralized solar power does not take up much land. Solar power is not the same as coal, nuclear, or other forms of energy where large-scale industrial plants are created. Solar energy, rather, is usually decentralized in households and smaller solar farms in local communities. This makes the land-use associated with solar energy very flexible.
pro_3_3	Deserts are possibly suitable for the deployment of solar farms.	Deserts are possibly suitable for the deployment of solar farms. DESERTEC Foundation Covering only a fraction of the area of deserts with solar cells with moderate efficiency would provide enough energy for world's energy needs.
con_3_1	Solar energy requires too much land, damaging the environment	 Solar energy requires too much land, damaging the environment The sun light and its energy hit the earth's surface in a diffuse manner. In other words, not much sunlight hits a square meter on the earth's surface. In order to gather significant quantities of this energy, a large swath of territory must be covered by solar panels. This makes solar energy land-intensive, which creates pressures to clear lands of trees for solar panels. This can eliminate important carbon sinks and have a negative impact on global warming. 
headline_4	Environment/batteries: Are the environmental issues with the batteries used acceptable?
pro_4_1	The disposal of solar energy batteries can be regulated.	The disposal of solar energy batteries can be regulated. While batteries can pose an environmental risk, it is very simple to impose disposal regulations on the suppliers and users of solar energy systems. 
pro_4_2	Long-life of solar energy systems reduce battery disposal.	Long-life of solar energy systems reduce battery disposal. The disposal of batteries is very infrequent with solar energy because these batteries and solar energy systems last for so long, which is partly a function of the fact that solar energy involves no moving parts. 
pro_4_3	Solar energy can be stored in ways other than batteries (i.e. hydrogen).	Solar energy can be stored in ways other than batteries (i.e. hydrogen). Martin LaMonica. "MIT researchers split water to store solar energy". CNet news. 31 July 2008
con_4_1	Solar power is intermittent so must be stored.	Solar power is intermittent so must be stored. Because solar energy doesn't produce at night and is dependent on good weather, it produces in fits and starts. This means that it must be stored, so that it can be supplied to the markets when needed. 
con_4_2	Solar power stores energy in environmentally hazardous batteries.	Solar power stores energy in environmentally hazardous batteries. Solar power is generally stored in lead-acid batteries.  These batteries contain lead and sulphuric acid which are toxic to air, soil, water, and marine life. While 98% of the materials in dead batteries are recoverable, they would require require greater regulations that do not yet exist and which may be difficult to enforce. 
headline_5	Economics: Is solar energy economically sound?
pro_5_1	Competitive solar industry is growing exponentially	 Competitive solar industry is growing exponentially "Solar's Time Has Finally Arrived". Yale Environment 360 - "Slowly but steadily, solar has been in the throes of a quiet revolution, with efficiencies rising, costs falling, and new technological breakthroughs — including the recent development of nano-thin photovoltaic materials — all dramatically changing the game."
pro_5_2	Many solar energy systems are now price competitive with coal	 Many solar energy systems are now price competitive with coal Josh Loposer. "Solar power will be cheaper than coal by 2020". 30 May 2008 - "Is it possible that solar power will be more cost effective than coal in 12 years? It seems like a pipe dream, but the US government along with huge investors like Goldman Sachs, Chevron, and Google seem to think it's a little better than just a distant possibility. Factoring in tax incentives, likely carbon-capping legislation, and rising natural gas prices, experts are estimating that the prices of coal and solar power will flip-flop by 2020."
pro_5_3	High oil prices make solar more competitive.	High oil prices make solar more competitive. High oil prices in recent years have made solar power much more price competitive.
pro_5_4	Solar energy is free after the initial investment.	Solar energy is free after the initial investment. Once installed, there are no recurring costs involved with Solar Energy.
pro_5_5	Solar energy is abundant.	Solar energy is abundant. Every minute, enough energy arrives at planet Earth to meet human energy demands for a year. It is, therefore, the most abundant energy source available to humans. This abundance makes it an economic gem. 
pro_5_6	The recovery/payback period can be very short.	The recovery/payback period can be very short. This is the length of time it takes to begin making profits on solar energy.
pro_5_7	Solar energy panels can be added to meet growing needs.	Solar energy panels can be added to meet growing needs. If a household or business demands more energy, it can always adds solar panels. Solar energy is easily scalable in this way. 
pro_5_8	Solar energy creates interesting employment opportunities.	Solar energy creates interesting employment opportunities. The employment opportunities created by solar power are interesting because they involve a high degree of interaction between the employee and communities that are demanding solar energy. That is, solar business transactions occur at a local level in face-to-fact deals and sales. More centralized forms of energy production (coal, oil, nuclear) entail employment opportunities that often isolate employees in far off places in which they have very little interaction with the communities that they are actually serving.
con_5_1	Sunlight is relatively weak energy source because rays are diluted.	Sunlight is relatively weak energy source because rays are "diluted". Compared to fossil fuels, sunlight is a weak energy source because the radiation strength is "diluted" by the time the rays reach earth. This makes its collection more difficult and expensive. In general, more high technology, equipment, and land-area are required with solar energy to produce the same amount of energy as other resources. This makes it more challenging and expensive.
con_5_2	While sunlight is free, the technology for capturing it is expensive.	While sunlight is free, the technology for capturing it is expensive. It is misleading to say that sunlight energy is free. The price of energy resources have always been determined by cost of extracting the energy and transforming it into a consumable form. Indeed, oil is "free" to those that discover it, but it is sold at a price related to the expense of extracting and refining the good. Solar energy is the same. The price of sun energy is found in the expense of the technology and other factors involved in extracting it and transforming it into a consumable form. It is not "free".
con_5_3	Solar panels cannot produce energy at night like other alternatives.	Solar panels cannot produce energy at night like other alternatives. Coal-electricity and hydroelectricity can both operate 24/7. Solar power, however, can only operate during the day-time. This means that solar power's energy yield is smaller relative to the capital investment.  
con_5_4	Clouds and smog undermine solar energy unlike other energy sources.	Clouds and smog undermine solar energy unlike other energy sources. If it is cloudy, the output of solar energy can be reduced by over ninety percent. This means that solar energy is entirely dependent on good weather, an unpredictable variable that is economically unattractive. 
con_5_5	Managing solar power's inconsistency is inefficient and costly.	Managing solar power's inconsistency is inefficient and costly. Because solar power is very inconsistent, it must be managed heavily. Someone has to constantly monitor solar energy's production, engaging back-up sources when supply is low and storing energy when supply is high. This is inefficient and costly. And, wherever solar power is built, an auxiliary source of power must be built as well. This is costly.
con_5_6	Solar panels convert energy less efficiently than other energy sources.	Solar panels convert energy less efficiently than other energy sources. Solar panels collect approximately 8 to 15% of the energy that reaches them, while coal-powered plants achieve about 35% efficiency.
headline_6	Electric grid: Is solar energy compatible with electric grids?
pro_6_1	Solar electric systems can be tied into electric grid	 Solar electric systems can be tied into electric grid Kate Davidson. "Let the sun shine in ; The case for solar power heats up". Monitor. 2005 - "solar electric systems: They can be tied into the electric grid. That means that on cloudy days, when the panels aren't satisfying a home's demand, the house can receive backup electricity from a utility. And on sunny days, when a home is not using all the energy the panels are producing, the energy is dumped into the grid for other electric customers to use. The utility gives the homeowners credit for the excess energy by turning back their meters."
con_6_1	Inconsistent solar energy is a challenge for electric grids.	Inconsistent solar energy is a challenge for electric grids. Electric grids must physically match electricity supply and demand. This means that electricity sources are best for the grid when they are consistent. Solar energy, however, is inconsistent, making it less compatible with the fundamental principles of electric grids. 
headline_7	Location: Does solar energy have locational benefits?
pro_7_1	Solar energy is generated where it is needed.	Solar energy is generated where it is needed. Many forms of energy are generated in a central location and than distributed out to consumers. Coal electric generation is done in this way. Solar energy, however, can be much more decentralized, in which solar panels are placed on a house and generate energy right there. 
pro_7_2	Solar Energy avoids problems of fuel recovery and transportation.	Solar Energy avoids problems of fuel recovery and transportation. Solar energy does not require fuel, so does not contribute to the cost and problems of the recovery and transportation of fuel. It also does not require that someone constantly pump fuel into an engine.
pro_7_3	Solar energy can operate independently.	Solar energy can operate independently. A Solar Energy system can operate entirely independently, not requiring a connection to a power or gas grid at all. Systems can therefore be installed in remote locations (like holiday log cabins), making it more practical and cost-effective than the supply of utility electricity to a new site.
pro_7_4	Tracking mount solar panels can solve the problem of the sun's positioning.	"Tracking mount" solar panels can solve the problem of the sun's positioning. "Tracking mount" solar panels can track the sun so as to optimize the production of energy from solar panels at all hours of the day.
con_7_1	Solar energy production depends on the weather.	Solar energy production depends on the weather. Solar energy production can be influenced by the presence of clouds or pollution in the air.
con_7_2	Solar power cannot produce at night, cutting yields in half	Solar power cannot produce at night, cutting yields in half Solar energy production depends on the sun's positioning during the day. And, obviously, at night-time, solar panels produce no energy. This inconsistency is problematic for energy grids that rely on consistency.
con_7_3	Soler power energy production varies with the seasons.	Soler power energy production varies with the seasons. The strength of the sun varies with the seasons. This inconsistency can be problematic.
con_7_4	Solar power is not well suited for snowy climates.	Solar power is not well suited for snowy climates. Snow can gather on solar panels in snowy climates. And, the slanted roofs that typify snowy climates are not ideal for solar panels; flat roofs are ideal. And, often in extremely cold climates, solar energy systems have to be dismantled during the cold season. This is costly.
con_7_5	Not all houses are oriented well for using solar energy.	Not all houses are oriented well for using solar energy. Many houses have roofs that face in a direction that does not work well with the course that the sun takes in the sky. This means that these houses cannot convert as much sun light to energy.   
con_7_6	Solar panels must be cleaned where deposits obstruct the sun.	Solar panels must be cleaned where deposits obstruct the sun. Deposits of varying kind can collect on solar panels and reduce the amount of sunlight that can be converted into energy. Heavy rain in some regions, for example, contain large amounts of calcium which can build up over time on solar panels into a white crust that can substantially obstruct the amount of light that enters the solar panel and that is converted into energy. This means that solar panels must be constantly cleaned, which is a hassle as well as costly. 
con_7_7	Solar panels can be damaged by extreme weather such as hail.	Solar panels can be damaged by extreme weather such as hail. Large hail storms can release baseball size hail. Solar panels are vulnerable to such extreme weather. 
headline_8	In cities: Is solar energy suited for cities?
pro_8_1	Solar farms can supply electricity to cities but exist elsewhere.	Solar farms can supply electricity to cities but exist elsewhere. While it may be the case that solar energy systems are not well suited for crowded cities, it should be noted that neither are dams or coal-electricity plants. Solar energy farms can exist outside of a city, and yet supply it with massive amounts of energy.
con_8_1	Solar energy is less effective in cities for various reasons.	Solar energy is less effective in cities for various reasons. Smog, buildings, and trees all act to block sunlight in cities, reducing the amount of solar energy that can be produced there.  
headline_9	Community: What are the local effects of solar energy?
pro_9_1	Solar power operates silently.	Solar power operates silently. Almost all other forms of energy are known for creating noise in the extraction of the resource, its use, or its transportation. Solar is very unique in producing no noise at all.  
pro_9_2	Solar energy does not release offensive smells.	Solar energy does not release offensive smells. Many energy resources release a smell into the atmosphere. Coal, oil, and gasoline all release an odor into the atmosphere. Solar does not.
pro_9_3	Decentralized, low-capital solar is better for small enterprise.	Decentralized, low-capital solar is better for small enterprise. Because solar energy systems can be decentralized and require less capital to start, they can be employed by smaller enterprises such as family businesses. This can help combat trends toward large energy company monopolies as well as stimulating local economies. 
pro_9_4	Solar involves democratic community-based decision-making.	Solar involves democratic community-based decision-making. Because solar is low-capital, decentralized, and integrated into communities, it is often also controlled by the members of communities. In this way, communities become very involved in the decision-making surrounding solar power. 
con_9_1	Solar farms can deface natural landscapes.	Solar farms can deface natural landscapes. Solar farms encounter a similar problem as wind farms. Both require using significant swaths of territory. This can damage aesthetic appeal of natural landscapes and frustrate communities that desire to maintain that appeal. It can even have a detrimental effect on tourism industries in communities that depend on such natural landscapes.  
headline_10	Personal use: Is solar energy well suited for personal use?
pro_10_1	Solar applications to households are usually simple.	Solar applications to households are usually simple. Household The household needs are of low scale such as cooking food, heating water, backup lights etc. So these can easily be fulfilled by solar energy as the apparatus or arrangement for such a requirement would not be very large and too costly. Moreover, it will be much more environment friendly than the other conventional sources of energy.
pro_10_2	Removing solar panels is as easy as installing them.	Removing solar panels is as easy as installing them. It is wrong to argue that it is too difficult to remove solar panels, for maintenance or to transport them to a new household. They are as easy to remove and transport as they are to deliver and install. 
con_10_1	Solar panels are hard to move when a person moves homes.	Solar panels are hard to move when a person moves homes. Solar panels are heavy, permanent installations. They are nearly impossible to move if one decides to buy a new home. This means that an individual's expensive investment may end up going to benefit the new owner of that individual's house. 
con_10_2	If a roof needs replacing, solar panels must be removed.	If a roof needs replacing, solar panels must be removed. Because solar panels are large and heavy, the removal of them for roofing repair is either impossible or expensive (as expensive as having them installed in the first place). And, it entails the risk of damaging the panels. 
headline_11	Oil dependencies: Does solar energy help lower foreign dependencies?
pro_11_1	Solar energy reduces nations dependence on oil/foreign oil.	Solar energy reduces nations dependence on oil/foreign oil. The use of Solar Energy helps reduce nations' dependence on foreign and/or centralized sources of energy, and so contributes to a sustainable future.
pro_11_2	Alternative clean fuels generated from solar power reduces dependence on oil	Alternative clean fuels generated from solar power reduces dependence on oil Hydrogen produced by solar power from the electrolysis of water is a emission free fuel that can be used to power cars and other vehicles. Moreover, hydrocarbons can be produced from pure hydrogen, e.g. by Fischer-Tropsch process.
con_11_1	Solar electricity cannot significantly reduce dependencies on oil.	Solar electricity cannot significantly reduce dependencies on oil. Solar electricity will not replace oil because it is electricity. Oil is not generally used to produce electricity and solar electricity would generally not replace the main kinds of modern uses of oil (ie. vehicles and transportation).
headline_12	Vs. nuclear: How does solar energy compare to nuclear energy?
pro_12_1	Nuclear power has the problem of disposing of radioactive waste.	Nuclear power has the problem of disposing of radioactive waste. Nuclear energy has the highly controversial challenge of producing nuclear waste, which must be disposed of in some form, which entails long-term environmental risks. Solar energy does not suffer from this challenge.  
pro_12_2	Solar energy is safer than nuclear energy.	Solar energy is safer than nuclear energy. Nuclear energy has two major risks: radioactive poisoning (particularly of nuclear energy plant workers) and of nuclear plant meltdowns. Solar energy does not suffer from any safety issues.
pro_12_3	Nuclear energy is inefficiently produced centrally	 Nuclear energy is inefficiently produced centrally 
pro_12_4	Solar energy is low-capital and more decentralized.	Solar energy is low-capital and more decentralized. Nuclear energy is very high capital and requires a high degree of expertise. This makes it a very centralized, big-business operation. Solar is the exact opposite in this regard, requiring very little capital and having the capacity to be highly decentralized to the local level where non-expert individuals can install and manage solar panels. 
pro_12_5	Increased use of nuclear power increases risks of nuclear proliferation.	Increased use of nuclear power increases risks of nuclear proliferation. Obtaining suitable fissile materials is the most problematic step in building nuclear weapons.  Because of the dangers of nuclear proliferation, nuclear power cannot serve as a viable global power source; the technology and materials for production can be as easily used for power generation as for building nuclear weapons.
con_12_1	Nuclear plants can produce a larger amount of energy than solar.	Nuclear plants can produce a larger amount of energy than solar. Nuclear fission and reactors can generate a much larger amount of energy than the typical solar farm.  
con_12_2	Nuclear power is a more potent and efficient source of energy.	Nuclear power is a more potent and efficient source of energy. A very small amount of Uranium can produce a massive quantity of energy. This compares favorably to solar power, in which a very large amount of sunlight is required to produce a much smaller quantity of energy. Nuclear energy is more efficient in this way.
con_12_3	Nuclear energy does not require as much land as solar.	Nuclear energy does not require as much land as solar. Sun light is diffuse. This means that solar panels must take up a large swath of territory in order to absorb all the energy. Consuming so much land is problematic environmentally, agriculturally, and economically.   
headline_13	Vs. clean coal: How does solar energy compare to clean coal?
pro_13_1	Solar energy is a 0-emission source; coal is not.	Solar energy is a 0-emission source; coal is not. Solar energy does not burn any fuel to generate electricity and so does not emit any greenhouse gases. This compares favorably to "clean coal", which burns coal and emits significant quantities of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, albeit less than ordinary coal-electricity generation.
pro_13_2	Coal is more land-intensive than solar energy	 Coal is more land-intensive than solar energy "Solar land use: less than coal". Grist. 26 May 2008 - "Nevada Solar One takes up about 400 acres, mostly for mirrors and heat engines. You would have to mine about 5,300 acres to feed a coal-fired powered plant producing the same amount of electricity. Even acre for acre, I'll take Solar One's pleasant campus over a coal mine." 
con_13_1	Solar energy cannot produce enough energy to replace coal.	Solar energy cannot produce enough energy to replace coal. Coal is the primary fuel for generating electricity around the world. Solar power cannot realistically produce enough energy anytime soon to replace this massive source of electricity. It is incapable, therefore, of making a serious dent in coal-electricity production and the related greenhouse gas emissions. 
