title	South Ossetia independence
question	Should South Ossetia be independent?
headline_1	Self-determination: Does S. Ossetia have a right to self-determination?
pro_1_1	South Ossetia has a right to self-determination	 South Ossetia has a right to self-determination The 1993 Vienna Declaration, which reaffirmed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Charter (and so sets the standard in current international law), unequivocally gives all peoples the right to self-determination: "All people have the right to self-determination. Owing to this right they freely establish their political status and freely provide their economic, social and cultural development...World Conference on Human Rights considers refusal of the right to self-determination as a violation of human rights and emphasizes the necessity of effective realization of this right". By this measure, South Ossetia has the right to self-determination (by democratic processes), and any suppression of that right should be seen as a human rights violation.
pro_1_2	99% of South Ossetians voted for independence in 2006	 99% of South Ossetians voted for independence in 2006 In 2006, South Ossetia held a referendum that found over 99% of its population of over 100,000 desire independence from Georgia. 95% of the the population turned out to vote. The referendum was monitored by a team of 34 international observers. These facts are the core of the case for South Ossetian independence. It demonstrates that South Ossetians are entirely unified and enthusiastic in their desire for independence. The strength and unity of these calls for independence are almost unprecedented and cannot be ignored by the international community. And, certainly, the percentage of a population that desires independence is of relevance to assessing the legitimacy of the call and a country's right to self-determination. By this standard, South Ossetia's right to self-determination is highly legitimate. 
pro_1_3	S. Ossetians will not accept reintegration with Georgia.	S. Ossetians will not accept reintegration with Georgia. It is important to recognize that South Ossetia has been de facto independent for some time. If it does not achieve independence, the proposed alternative is that it re-integrate into Georgia. Yet, %99 of South Ossetians have made it clear that they will not accept this. The only possible course of action, therefore, would be to force over 100,000 South Ossetians to live under the tyranny of the majority of the Georgian state. This is a clear violation of self-determination and basic democratic principles.  
con_1_1	Self-determination is not absolute; S. Ossetia does not qualify.	Self-determination is not absolute; S. Ossetia does not qualify. Self-determination is not an absolute right. Not every territory and region in the world that seeks independence has the right to it. This is due in no small part to the fact that such a system would be unworkable. Certain criteria must be met for a territory and people to obtain a legitimate right to self-determination. Much of the below case outlines these criteria and why S. Ossetia fails to meet them satisfactorily.  
con_1_2	Georgia has a right to maintain its internal sovereign integrity.	Georgia has a right to maintain its internal sovereign integrity. Georgia has a legitimate sovereign right to maintain its territorial integrity as well as the social contract accompanying it. Georgia has the right to take action to secure the integrity of these things, unless blocked by a higher international authority. 
headline_2	2006 referendum: Should S. Ossetia's 2006 referendum be respected?
pro_2_1	99% of South Ossetians voted for independence in 2006	 99% of South Ossetians voted for independence in 2006 In 2006, South Ossetia held a referendum that found over 99% of its population of over 100,000 desire independence from Georgia. 95% of the the population turned out to vote. The referendum was monitored by a team of 34 international observers. These facts are the core of the case for South Ossetian independence. 
pro_2_2	S. Ossetia 2006 referendum should be recognized	 S. Ossetia 2006 referendum should be recognized Russia’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs described the 2006 referendum as a "free expression of the will of South Ossetia’s people through democratic procedures. Many countries in Europe and America could only envy the level of organization and democratic transparency [in South Ossetia]."[1] Denying the legitimacy of this democratic referendum is to deny the South Ossetian people the right to self determination. That the international community refuses to recognize 
pro_2_3	It is invalid to criticize S. Ossetia's referendum for risking instability.	It is invalid to criticize S. Ossetia's referendum for risking instability. The US State Department as well as the European Union both argued that the South Ossetia referendum was wrong on the basis that it was "unhelpful" and could exacerbate tensions with Georgia. This, however, is an invalid status quo argument. It posits that any vote taken by the South Ossetians that disrupts the status quo is invalid, while a vote that might uphold the status quote could be considered valid. This is an unprincipled argument. The South Ossetians have a right to express their beliefs, and those beliefs are legitimate and should be respected, irrespective of whether it disrupts the status quo or even leads to conflict with Georgia. And, if Georgia and other states want to maintain stability, they can do so by not reacting violently to an independent South Ossetia.
con_2_1	S. Ossetia's 2006 independence referendum was rejected globally	 S. Ossetia's 2006 independence referendum was rejected globally No countries recognized South Ossetia's 2006 referendum and vote for independence. Without such approval, the referendum should be considered illegitimate. 
con_2_2	South Ossetia was wrong to hold elections under conflict conditions.	South Ossetia was wrong to hold elections under conflict conditions. In 2006, South Ossetia can be said to have been in 8 conflicts with Georgia when it held its 2006 referendum on independence. Holding referendums under such conflict conditions is generally illegitimate because the results of the elections are skewed by the conflict, threats, and the various risks for the voters involved. This caused David Bakradze, the chairman of a Georgian parliamentary European Integration Committee, to comment, "Under conflict conditions, you cannot speak about legitimate elections."[2]
con_2_3	Russia's involvement corrupted the 2006 S. Ossetian referendum	 Russia's involvement corrupted the 2006 S. Ossetian referendum Vladimir Socor. "MOSCOW’S FINGERPRINTS ALL OVER SOUTH OSSETIA’S REFERENDUM". 15 Nov. 2006 - "On November 12 the Russian-installed authorities in South Ossetia held a referendum and “presidential” election in the portions of territory under their control. The balloting returned the de facto president, Eduard Kokoiti, to office for another term and produced a “yes” answer to the question: “Do you agree that the Republic of South Ossetia should retain its current status as an independent state and be recognized by the international community?”"
con_2_4	2006 S. Ossetia referendum only exacerbated tensions	 2006 S. Ossetia referendum only exacerbated tensions Sean McCormack. "State Department Press Statement". Sean McCormack, Spokesman for the US State Department. 8 Nov. 2006 - "The United States rejects the "independence referendum" and concurrent so-called "presidential" elections scheduled for November 12 in Georgia’s South Ossetia region. These actions will only serve to exacerbate tensions and divert attention from the need to peacefully resolve the conflict."
headline_3	Recognition: Is S. Ossetia recognized in the international community?
pro_3_1	Russia supports S. Ossetia's 2006 referendum and right to independence.	Russia supports S. Ossetia's 2006 referendum and right to independence. The world is certainly not united in opposing S. Ossetia's move for independence. Russia has clearly offered support to S. Ossetia's move toward independence, and has called for the world to recognize the will of the S. Ossetian people. 
con_3_1	S. Ossetia is not recognized diplomatically by any UN member	 S. Ossetia is not recognized diplomatically by any UN member This fact is critical against S. Ossetia's case for independence. In order to obtain independence, it is important that a country be recognized diplomatically by a significant number of the members of the United Nations. This is important in large part because it ensures that a state will have viable diplomatic relations internationally if it becomes independent. It also demonstrates that the international system supports a certain action being taken internationally.  
headline_4	Kosovo precedent: Does S. Ossetia deserve independence because Kosovo got it?
pro_4_1	South Ossetia has as much claim to independence as Kosovo	 South Ossetia has as much claim to independence as Kosovo Kosovo declared independence from Serbia in 2007. Most Western scholars consider this to have been a legitimate claim. A comparative analysis reveals that South Ossetia has an equally legitimate claim to independence as Kosovo. Both have populations that overwhelmingly support independence (over 90%). Both have a population with a distinct ethnic, national, and linguistic identity. Both have governed themselves autonomously for some time. And, both have been oppressed by the governments that make a claim to have sovereign rights over their territory. Both are very small, landlocked states. There appear to be more similarities between Kosovo and S. Ossetia than dissimilarities. Therefore, Kosovo's independence sets a strong precedent for South Ossetia also declaring independence.
con_4_1	S. Ossetian independence should be assessed in isolation.	S. Ossetian independence should be assessed in isolation. There is no reason to use the Kosovo case in assessing S. Ossetia's prospects for independence. International norms and criteria should be used on a case-by-case basis in assessing the legitimacy of moves toward independence. 
con_4_2	S. Ossetia's case is different than Kosovo's case.	S. Ossetia's case is different than Kosovo's case. There are significant differences between South Ossetia and Kosovo that make South Ossetia a less legitimate prospect for independence. 
con_4_3	Kosovo independence was illegitimate so is a bad precedent.	Kosovo independence was illegitimate so is a bad precedent. Kosovo should not have been given independence. Its independence is, therefore, illegitimate, and should not be held up as a precedent by which South Ossetian independence can be justified. 
headline_5	Georgian governance: Has Georgia inadequately governed S. Ossetia?
pro_5_1	Modern Georgia never really controlled S. Ossetia.	Modern Georgia never really controlled S. Ossetia. South Ossetia declared independence from Georgia shortly after Georgia gained independence from the disintegrating USSR in 1991. South Ossetia has maintained de facto independence ever since. Goergia, therefore, cannot really claim to have had sustained, legitimate sovereign control over South Ossetia in modern times. Therefore, its only real claim to South Ossetia must extend back nearly a century, before the time of the Soviet Union. This significantly weakens Georgia's claim over South Ossetia.
pro_5_2	Georgia is accused of multiple instances of genocide in S. Ossetia	 Georgia is accused of multiple instances of genocide in S. Ossetia Georgia has been accused of committing genocide against the South Ossetians in 1920, 1993, and 2008. 
pro_5_3	Georgia suppressed South Ossetian culture/identity	 Georgia suppressed South Ossetian culture/identity 
con_5_1	Georgia has a democratically elected government.	Georgia has a democratically elected government. Georgia's government is democratic and modern in its institutions. It is fully capable and intent on governing S. Ossetia democratically and honestly. 
con_5_2	Georgia cannot be blamed for its absence in S. Ossetia.	Georgia cannot be blamed for its absence in S. Ossetia. Georgia has been absent in S. Ossetia. Yet, this is not the will of the Georgian government, but the result of S. Ossetian separatism. If Georgia was given a chance to govern S. Ossetia, it would do so very well.
headline_6	Viability: Would S. Ossetia be a viable state?
pro_6_1	S. Ossetia has had de facto independence from Georgia	 S. Ossetia has had de facto independence from Georgia South Ossetia has been de facto independent since the 1990s. It has excercised authority over its own affairs since then. Georgia, therefore, was wrong to attempt to re-claim South Ossetia by force.
pro_6_2	South Ossetia has an effective democratic government	 South Ossetia has an effective democratic government "Independence of the Republic of South Ossetia". Speech at the VI congress of the Ossetian people. 18 Mar. 2008 - "The organized government carries out an effective control over the territory and the population. The Republic has its own Constitution accepted by the referendum of 2001, the Army, the National flag and the Hymn. The status of the citizen is certified by the passport given out by the state. The president and Parliament are elected by general voting. The Republic of South Ossetia is a legally valid democratic state. The Republic of South Ossetia held all the elections without exception, all the procedures of delegation of powers to the President, Parliament, and the Government in strict accordance with the constitutional order. The Republic has independent legal procedure, army and militia and security service. The state levies taxes, provides property rights and social service – public health services, provision of pensions, public safety, power and road and transport services, etc."
con_6_1	S. Ossetia maintained de facto independence only with Russian aid.	S. Ossetia maintained de facto independence only with Russian aid. It is false to claim that South Ossetia's de facto independence from Georgia is some how a sign of its independence. It was only able to secure such de facto independence with substantial military and foreign aid from Russia.   
con_6_2	South Ossetia is unviable as an independent state	 South Ossetia is unviable as an independent state There are many factors that make South Ossetia unviable as a state. South Ossetia is very small with a very small population. It is also a landlocked state and very poor. These facts make it unlikely that South Ossetia could act effectively as an independent state. The result is that it would become dependent on other states.
con_6_3	S. Ossetia is economically unviable as a state	S. Ossetia is economically unviable as a state South Ossetian GDP was estimated at US$ 15 million (US$ 250 per capita) in a work published in 2002. Daria Vaisman wrote in a 2006 Christian Science Monitor article that South Ossetia is "lacking...the basic economic necessities for autonomy."[3] Indeed, a $15 million GDP would make South Ossetia one of the poorest nations in the world. Following a war with Georgia in the 1990s, South Ossetia has struggled economically. Employment and supplies are scarce. The majority of the population survives on subsistence farming. Virtually the only significant economic asset that South Ossetia possesses is control of the Roki Tunnel that links Russia and Georgia, from which the South Ossetian government reportedly obtains as much as a third of its budget by levying customs duties on freight traffic. The separatist officials admitted that Tskhinvali received more than 60 percent of its 2006 budget revenue directly from the Russian government.
con_6_4	S. Ossetia's population is too small to warrant statehood.	S. Ossetia's population is too small to warrant statehood. South Ossetia has a population of roughly 70,000. This would make it one of the smallest states in the world. This fact, combined with its high level of poverty, makes it a poor candidate for independence.
headline_7	History: Does S. Ossetia have an historical claim to independence?
pro_7_1	Georgia and S. Ossetia have a long history of conflict.	Georgia and S. Ossetia have a long history of conflict. Georgia's long history of attempting to assert control over S. Ossetia consists of unending conflict, tension, and resistance. S. Ossetians have never accepted Georgian sovereignty without putting up a fight. The length of this history of conflict suggests that it is very unlikely to end. The only way to end it is through S. Ossetian independence.
pro_7_2	S. Ossetians protested Georgian nationalism even during the 80s	 S. Ossetians protested Georgian nationalism even during the 80s 
pro_7_3	Bolsheviks recognized Ossetia as independent	 Bolsheviks recognized Ossetia as independent The Kremlin stated on May 17th, 1920, "… we consider that Ossetia should have the power it prefers. Georgian intrusion into affairs of Ossetia would be an unjustified intervention into foreign internal affairs".[4]
pro_7_4	S. Ossetia was autonomous under USSR; a basis for independence.	S. Ossetia was autonomous under USSR; a basis for independence. S. Ossetia was an autonomous region within the USSR. It was not considered part of the same region that is now Georgia. Therefore, S. Ossetia, during its years under the USSR, built up a significant degree of autonomy and independence in its internal functioning. 
pro_7_5	S. Ossetia legitimately gained independence at break-up of USSR	 S. Ossetia legitimately gained independence at break-up of USSR "Independence of the Republic of South Ossetia". Speech at the VI congress of the Ossetian people. 18 Mar. 2008 - "State Sovereignty of the Republic of South Ossetia After Georgia declared its independence, the Republic of South Ossetia was acting in strict conformity with the Law of “Order of Settlement of the Withdrawal Problems of Union Republics from the USSR” and gained its independence as the result of a national referendum in compliance with all legal norms and procedures under the control of observers from foreign states."
pro_7_6	Name Ossetia has history independent of Georgia	 Name Ossetia has history independent of Georgia Chapter 4 of "The Georgian - South Ossetian Conflict" - "Ossetian historians dedicate much effort to show that the name South Ossetia was not an invention by the Soviet Union, but used much earlier; this they demonstrate by using Russian, Armenian, Western and Georgian sources. They state that the first written source mentioning the name South Ossetia is in the early middle ages by Armenians (as for example in Gagloiti)."
con_7_1	Ossetians migrated to Georgia; Georgia did not annex Ossetian land.	Ossetians migrated to Georgia; Georgia did not annex Ossetian land. Under Mongol rule, Ossetians were pushed out of their medieval homeland south of the Don river in present-day Russia and part migrated towards and over the Caucasus mountains, to Georgia, where they formed three distinct territorial entities. Digor in the west came under the influence of the neighboring Kabard people, who introduced Islam. Tualläg in the south became what is now South Ossetia, part of the historical Georgian principality of Samachablo, where Ossetians found refuge from Mongol invaders. S. Ossetians, therefore, came to and settled in Georgian territory. This demonstrates that Georgian territory existed prior to a population of S. Ossetians coming to that territory to settle. Georgia, therefore, has a greater claim to the integrity of its territory than S. Ossetia does to its existence in a certain territory.
con_7_2	Russia agreed in 1917 S. Ossetia was part of Georgia	 Russia agreed in 1917 S. Ossetia was part of Georgia Chapter 4 of "The Georgian - South Ossetian Conflict" - "After the collapse of the Tsarist Empire in 1917 (of which Georgia had been part of since 1801) Georgia declared its independence. Georgia formed the Democratic Republic of Georgia, led by the Georgian social democrats - the so-called Menshevics. The country was recognised by several Western states (Sakvarelidze 1993, p.27). On 7 May 1920, a treaty of friendship was signed between Georgia and Russia in which, according to Georgian sources Russia recognised South Ossetia as an integral part of Georgia. It was named as Tiflis Gubernia and included the district Shida Kartli, therefore including what was to become the South Ossetian Autonomous Region (Oblast)"
con_7_3	The Ossetian people have a divided, non-contiguous history.	The Ossetian people have a divided, non-contiguous history. The Ossetians are originally descendants of the Alans, a Sarmatian tribe. They became Christians during the early Middle Ages, under Georgian and Byzantine influences. Under Mongol rule, they were pushed out of their medieval homeland south of the Don river in present-day Russia and part migrated towards and over the Caucasus mountains, to Georgia where they formed three distinct territorial entities. Digor in the west came under the influence of the neighboring Kabard people, who introduced Islam. Tualläg in the south became what is now South Ossetia, part of the historical Georgian principality of Samachablo where Ossetians found refuge from Mongol invaders. Iron in the north became what is now North Ossetia, under Russian rule from 1767. Most Ossetians are now Christian (approximately 61%); there is also a significant Muslim minority.
headline_8	Joining Russia: Might S. Ossetia join Russia? Would this be OK?
pro_8_1	S. Ossetia may re-join with N. Ossetia and Russia.	S. Ossetia may re-join with N. Ossetia and Russia. S. Ossetia may seek independence. Following independence, however, it is equally valid that it seek to re-join with N. Ossetia - its natural kin to the north - and subsequently join the Russian federation. Of course, it would have to first separate from Georgia, whereupon it will have the capacity to then decide to join Russia.   
con_8_1	If the aim to join Russia, S. Ossetia nationalism arguments can't apply.	If the aim to join Russia, S. Ossetia nationalism arguments can't apply. If the aim of the S. Osseitans' is to join with Russia, upon seceding from Georgia, than the many arguments it is putting forward in support of its national identity and right to self-determination do not apply in the same way. 
headline_9	Stability: Is S. Ossetian independence an important means to stability?
pro_9_1	S. Ossetian independence will help avoid future conflict.	S. Ossetian independence will help avoid future conflict. Alan Dzhusoev, head of Club Open Society, a leading South Ossetian non-governmental organization. - "A failure to recognize South Ossetia will turn Tskhinvali [South Ossetia's de facto capital] into Beirut, with unending militarized clashes and tensions in the region."[5] This is confirmed by the fact that the history of Georgia and S. Ossetia is one of unending conflict. This will only continue into the future, unless S. Ossetia obtains independence.
con_9_1	If S. Ossetians renounce violence, no future conflicts will occur.	If S. Ossetians renounce violence, no future conflicts will occur. S. Ossetian militant separatists argue that, if S. Ossetia is not given independence, that future violence and chaos will result. Yet, this is only the case if S. Ossetian separatists continue to resist Georgia's sovereignty violently. If S. Ossetians renounce the use of force and their separatism, there will be no future conflicts. This is an equally valid solution as independence. 
headline_10	Ethnicity: Do the S. Ossetian's have a distinct national identity?
pro_10_1	Ossetians have a distinct ethnic identity and history	 Ossetians have a distinct ethnic identity and history This tribal identity connects North and South Ossetians. For this reason, S. Ossetians have a stronger bond with N. Ossetians and Russians than they do with Georgians.
pro_10_2	South Ossetia has a resident population.	South Ossetia has a resident population. This is one of the primary criteria for recognition as a state in the international system. South Ossetia has a resident population, consisting of peoples with lineages extending back many centuries. 
pro_10_3	Keeping S. Ossetia in Georgia prolongs ethnic conflict.	Keeping S. Ossetia in Georgia prolongs ethnic conflict. S. Ossetia and Georgia have been battling each other for over a century. Georgia has been accused of ethnic cleansing there. Keeping S. Ossetia within Georgia will simply prolong this ethic struggle, which has demonstrated itself to be irreconcilable in the foreseeable future.
con_10_1	The world needs fewer borders; A S. Ossetian nation adds more.	The world needs fewer borders; A S. Ossetian nation adds more. As a principle, borders should be coming down around the world, not going up. This promotes greater integration, tolerance, and a higher worldview globally. An independent S. Ossetia would create more borders, and would be, therefore, bad in this way. While the principle of self-determination sounds attractive, it must be balanced against this valuable principle as well.
con_10_2	S. Ossetia should stay with Georgia to foster strength through diversity.	S. Ossetia should stay with Georgia to foster strength through diversity. Even if S. Ossetians are a distinct people with a distinct claim to nationhood, isn't this actually a good reason for them to stay within Georgia. This would expose both ethnic S. Ossetians and Georgians to greater diversity. While the principle of self-determination has value, so do these other counter-veiling principle. 
headline_11	Language: Does South Ossetia have a distinct language?
pro_11_1	South Ossetia has its own distinct language.	South Ossetia has its own distinct language. Ossetian or Ossetic is a member of the Northeastern Iranian branch of Indo-European languages. About 500,000 people speak Ossetian in Ossetia. That Ossetia has this distinct language is an important fact in favor of its status as a nation-state and in favor of its independence. 
con_11_1	Multiple languages are common in modern nation states.	Multiple languages are common in modern nation states. It is common that modern nations have peoples of many different backgrounds and whom speak many different languages. The fact that a people speak a different language is not a justification for them obtaining independence. In fact, such a justification is counter-productive to the goals of integrating populations and creating greater tolerance and understanding among them.
headline_12	Geography: Does geography favor S. Ossetian independence?
pro_12_1	S. Ossetia has a definite territory.	S. Ossetia has a definite territory. This is one of the primary criteria for statehood under international law. South Ossetia has a definite territory in the international system. Its territory is already recognized within Georgia (as an autonomous region), with clear boundaries. 
pro_12_2	Mountains should not be a factor in dividing Ossetia	 Mountains should not be a factor in "dividing" Ossetia "Independence of the Republic of South Ossetia". Speech at the VI congress of the Ossetian people. 18 Mar. 2008 - "Located in the geopolitical centre of the Caucasus, on both sides of the Main ridge, Ossetia does refute the myth that mountains are doomed to be a natural border."
con_12_1	South Ossetia is too small to be independent.	South Ossetia is too small to be independent. South Ossetia is 3,900 sq km. This is a very small. South Ossetia would become one of the smallest countries in the world.
con_12_2	South Ossetia is extremely mountainous.	South Ossetia is extremely mountainous. South Ossetian territory exists on the southern side of the Caucasus mountain range. It is extremely mountainous, with most of the region lying over 1,000 m (3,300 ft) above sea level. This fact mainly damages S. Ossetia's viability economically.
