title	Russian vs. Georgian justifications in 2008 South Ossetia war
question	Were Russia or Georgia's actions in the 2008 South Ossetia war legitimate?
headline_1	Proportionality: Was Russia's response proportional to Georgia's initial action?
pro_1_1	Russia's humanitarian intervention was justified to protect Russians	 Russia's humanitarian intervention was justified to protect Russians Russia's intervened in South Ossetia to protect Russians from Georgia's hard-handed military intervention in South Ossetia, which resulted in a significant humanitarian crisis. Some claim that upwards of 2,000 civilians had died in the South Ossetian capital Tskhinvali as a result of Georgian military operations there, most of them Russian citizens. Russia's constitution requires that it protect its citizens no matter where they are in the world. Russia aggressive response to the death of so many of its citizens was, therefore, justified. 
pro_1_2	Russia sent troops to Georgia to defend its peacekeepers	 Russia sent troops to Georgia to defend its peacekeepers One of Russia's primary objectives in South Ossetia was to protect Russian peacekeepers that were under attack by Georgian forces. During this attack reportedly 10 Russian peacekeepers were killed and roughly 150 injured. This provided a sound pretext for a strong military response from Russia. 
pro_1_3	Russian blockade of arms reaching Georgia was justified	 Russian blockade of arms reaching Georgia was justified Interfax news agency cited a source in the Russian naval command saying, "This is definitely necessary for preventing arms shipments to Georgia by sea. A sea blockade of Georgia will also help avert an escalation of military activity in Abkhazia."[1]
con_1_1	Russia's bombing of South Ossetia has been disproportionate	 Russia's bombing of South Ossetia has been disproportionate Russia's bombings within South Ossetia have been too heavy handed, involving too much destructive fore, and resulting in too many civilian casualties.
con_1_2	Russia bombed Georgia beyond South Ossetia	 Russia bombed Georgia beyond South Ossetia Helen Womack. "Nato joins US in condemning Russia's response in South Ossetia". guardian.co.uk. 11 Aug. 2008 - "I was very firm with Vladimir Putin. I expressed my grave concern about the disproportionate response of Russia. We strongly condemn bombing outside of South Ossetia."
con_1_3	Shellings by South Ossetian separatists provoked Georgia's attack.	Shellings by South Ossetian separatists provoked Georgia's attack. Georgia's military actions in South Ossetia were not unprovoked. They were a proportional response to shellings against Georgia proper by South Ossetian separatists.
con_1_4	Russia aided South Ossetian separatists against Georgia	 Russia aided South Ossetian separatists against Georgia 
con_1_5	Russia wrongly attempted to depose democratic Georgian govt	 Russia wrongly attempted to depose democratic Georgian govt US President George Bush. - "Russia has invaded a sovereign neighboring state and threatens a democratic government elected by its people. Such an action is unacceptable in the 21st century."[2] 
con_1_6	Russia's bombing of Georgian oil fields was disproportionate.	Russia's bombing of Georgian oil fields was disproportionate. "Georgian oil facilities bombed". The Star. 8 Aug. 2008 
con_1_7	Russia invaded Georgia to reassert its empire	 Russia invaded Georgia to reassert its empire Robert Baer. "The Russian Empire Strikes Back". Time. - "Russia's invasion of Georgia has less to do with South Ossetia than with a Russia that never reconciled itself to losing an empire — or to being treated like a second-rate power all these years. Russia's resentment has only grown as oil prices have risen, turning Russia, with the 5 million bbl. of oil it exports a day, into a first-world economic power. It was only a matter of time, then, before Russia taught the world a lesson."
headline_2	Humanitarian: Can Russia's actions be considered peacekeeping or humanitarian?
pro_2_1	Russia responded to a humanitarian crisis in South Ossetia	 Russia responded to a humanitarian crisis in South Ossetia Over 2,000 civilians were reported to have been killed in the capital city of South Ossetia, following Georgia's military actions there. Russia's response to this humanitarian crisis was justified.
con_2_1	Russia's actions in Georgia cannot be described as humanitarian.	Russia's actions in Georgia cannot be described as "humanitarian". Russia moved more than 9,000 troops into South Ossetia, while peacekeeping agreements allow only 2,500. Its violation of these agreements signifies that Russia was not attempting to engage in a peacekeeping or humanitarian operation, but was, rather, engaging in a broader military action against Georgia.[4]  
headline_3	Genocide: Did Georgia or Russia commit genocide in South Ossetia?
pro_3_1	Georgia committed genocide in South Ossetia	 Georgia committed genocide in South Ossetia Russia's ambassador to NATO Dmitry Rogozin said that what was happening in Georgia's breakaway region could only be seen as "ethnic cleansing and genocide".[5] Georgia has also been accused of shelling Tskhinvali, the capital city of South Ossetia.
pro_3_2	Georgia has committed genocide in South Ossetia before.	Georgia has committed genocide in South Ossetia before. This is not the first time that Georgia has been accused of committing genocide in Georgia. It has allegedly committed genocide in South Ossetia in the early 1990s.
con_3_1	Russia exaggerated the humanitarian crisis in South Ossetia	 Russia exaggerated the humanitarian crisis in South Ossetia Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili denounced as "a lie" Russian claims of more than 1,000 civilian deaths in South Ossetia's main city. He said "practically no civilians" were killed. He continued that the claims were an "egregious lie. There were practically no civilians dead. But Tskhinvali is ruined as a result of Russian bombardments."[6]
con_3_2	Russia engaged in ethnic cleansing in Georgia	 Russia engaged in ethnic cleansing in Georgia On August 13th, Georgia filed a lawsuit against Russia at the International Court of Justice for allegedly engaging in ethnic cleansing South Ossetia and other parts of Georgia. [7] 
headline_4	S. Ossetia independence: Does S. Ossetia deserve independence from Georgia?
pro_4_1	South Ossetia is de facto independent; Georgia invaded.	South Ossetia is de facto independent; Georgia "invaded". South Ossetia has been de facto independent since the 1990s. It has excercised authority over its own affairs since then. Georgia, therefore, was wrong to attempt to re-claim South Ossetia by force.
pro_4_2	Bombing homes and civilians is not Georgia reasserting sovereignty.	Bombing homes and civilians is not "Georgia reasserting sovereignty". Many supporters of Georgia claim that Georgia was justified to reassert its sovereignty over South Ossetia. But, such a re-assertion of territorial integrity could not legitimately include bombing civilian targets and inflicting such a heavy humanitarian toll on Georgia. 
pro_4_3	South Ossetia should be independent; Georgia should allow.	South Ossetia should be independent; Georgia should allow. Southern Ossetia should be independent. Its case for independence is very strong, with over a decade of de facto, democratic self-governance, and a majority desiring and voting for independence from Georgia in 2006. Because its case is so strong for independence, Georgia's decision to attempt to re-claim it by force was particularly illegitimate. 
pro_4_4	South Ossetia has a right to self-determination	 South Ossetia has a right to self-determination "South Ossetians, too, have the right to self-determination". Daily Telegraph. 11 Aug. 2008 
pro_4_5	Over 90% if South Ossetians want independence from Georgia	 Over 90% if South Ossetians want independence from Georgia In 2006, South Ossetia held a referendum that found over 90% of its population wants independence from Georgia. This provides a very strong case for giving South Ossetia independence, on the basis of self-determination.  
con_4_1	South Ossetia is recognized as Georgian; Russia invaded Georgia	 South Ossetia is recognized as Georgian; Russia invaded Georgia "Opinion: A Ruso-Georgian Media War in South Ossetia". 9 Aug. 2008 - "The republic of South Ossetia, which is not recognized internationally, formally belongs to the Georgian state even if Tbilisi has lost factual control there for the past 15 years and almost all residents have Russian passports."
con_4_2	S. Ossetia's 2006 independence referendum was rejected globally	 S. Ossetia's 2006 independence referendum was rejected globally None of the world recognized South Ossetia's 2006 referendum vote for independence. Therefore, this referendum should be considered illegitimate. 
con_4_3	South Ossetia is unviable as an independent state	 South Ossetia is unviable as an independent state S. Ossetia is too small to be independent. It is also a landlocked state. These facts make it unlikely that South Ossetia could act effectively as an independent state.
con_4_4	South Ossetia has been part of Georgia for centuries.	South Ossetia has been part of Georgia for centuries. 
headline_5	Kosovo precedent: Does S. Ossetia deserve independence because Kosovo got it?
pro_5_1	South Ossetia has as much claim to independence as Kosovo	 South Ossetia has as much claim to independence as Kosovo Kosovo declared independence from Serbia in 2007. Most Western scholars consider this to have been a legitimate claim. A comparative analysis reveals that South Ossetia has an equally legitimate claim to independence as Kosovo.
con_5_1	Kosovo independence was illegitimate so is a bad precedent.	Kosovo independence was illegitimate so is a bad precedent. Kosovo should not have been given independence. Its independence is, therefore, illegitimate, and should not be held up as a precedent by which South Ossetian independence can be justified. 
con_5_2	Russian double standard in opposing Kosovo while helping S. Ossetia.	Russian double standard in opposing Kosovo while helping S. Ossetia. Russia long opposed Kosovo's moves to independence. It is, therefore, a double standard that it now support Ossetian independence.  
headline_6	Diplomacy: Have Russia and Georgia excercised sufficiently diplomacy?
pro_6_1	Georgia was wrong to act militarily (vs. diplomatically) in South Ossetia.	Georgia was wrong to act militarily (vs. diplomatically) in South Ossetia. Georgia did not pursue legitimate, legal diplomatic means in addressing its grievances in South Ossetia. Instead, it resorted to military action. This is wrong and even illegal.
pro_6_2	Georgia has been building military forces to attack South Ossetia.	Georgia has been building military forces to attack South Ossetia. Georgia has been engaging in a concerted campaign for many years to bolster its military forces in order to launch military operations in South Ossetia. Such planning indicates that Georgia never had in mind the pursuit of legitimate diplomatic means to resolving this crisis, and always imagined the use of force as the principal means of achieving its aims. This is unacceptable.
pro_6_3	Georgian leadership did not appeal to Russian president	 Georgian leadership did not appeal to Russian president Russian President Dmitry Medvedev - "We have not received through any channels any appeal from the Georgian leadership to the president of Russia."[10]
con_6_1	Russia pursued insufficient diplomatic ends before invading Georgia.	Russia pursued insufficient diplomatic ends before invading Georgia. Russia should have pursued diplomatic channels through the international community before invading Georgian territory. 
con_6_2	Russia has needlessly escalated the conflict with Georgia.	Russia has needlessly escalated the conflict with Georgia. US President George Bush said that Russia has made a "dramatic and brutal escalation" of the conflict over South Ossetia.[11]
headline_7	Ceasefire: Has Russian or Georgia been wrong in regards to ceasefires?
pro_7_1	Russia justly sought to end humanitarian crisis before ceasefire.	Russia justly sought to end humanitarian crisis before ceasefire. Russian President Medvedev agreed to a ceasefire on August 12th, 2008, but only after securing South Ossetia, and ensuring an end to the humanitarian crisis for civilians and peacekeepers there. Russia was justified in obtaining such security before accepting a ceasefire. 
con_7_1	Russia wrongly rejected an initial Georgian ceasefire.	Russia wrongly rejected an initial Georgian ceasefire.
headline_8	International law: Which country has acted more consistently with international law?
pro_8_1	Russia legally justified in actions in S. Ossetia	 Russia legally justified in actions in S. Ossetia Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin said, "From the legal point of view our actions are absolutely justified and legitimate." On a separate occasion, Vladimir Putin said, "Russia's actions in South Ossetia are totally legitimate."[12]
headline_9	NATO expansion: Were Russia's aims to prevent Georgian membership in NATO?
con_9_1	Russia attacked Georgia to halt its NATO membership	 Russia attacked Georgia to halt its NATO membership "South Ossetia." Global Security.org "Russia has opposed NATO membership for Georgia. Georgia's application for NATO membership was deferred in April 2008 due to the unresolved conflicts in Abkhazia and South Ossetia. By exacerbating these conflicts, Russia renders Georgia an un-appetising candidate for NATO membership. A decisive defeat for Georgia could also be seen as a defeat for the United States, and result in diminished American influence in the region."
headline_10	US role: Is the US position unjustified?
pro_10_1	The US is culpable in causing the present crisis in Georgia.	The US is culpable in causing the present crisis in Georgia. The US has supported Georgia for years by arming it and providing it with a false sense of backing. This has stoked Georgia's confidence and contributed to Georgia taking military action in South Ossetia. Russian Foreign Minister warned the US that it was contributing to the problem in this way.
pro_10_2	Media coverage is biased against Russia.	Media coverage is biased against Russia. These biases have even included action
pro_10_3	Georgia has blocked Russia media coverage in South Ossetia.	Georgia has blocked Russia media coverage in South Ossetia.  
pro_10_4	The US has no oil interests in South Ossetia.	The US has no oil interests in South Ossetia.
con_10_1	The US was justified in backing democratic Georgia.	The US was justified in backing democratic Georgia. Georgia is a democracy, and the US has been justified in providing political and military aid to such a country. 
