title	Falkland Islands, return of
question	Should the United Kingdom hand over the Falkland Islands to Argentina?
headline_1	Self-determination: Do the islanders have a right to self-determination?
pro_1_1	Argentina's historical and territorial/geographical claims to the islands are spurious.	Argentina's historical and territorial/geographical claims to the islands are spurious. Argentina has only ever achieved effective control of the islands, as invaders, for 2 months in 1832 and 2 months in 1982. On each occassion they were ejected by the rightful owners. There has never been a population of 'Argentines' on the islands, nor was there any indigineous indians there before the British claimed the islands in 1765. The islanders are therefore the rightful people of the islands and their rights of self determination are fully protected under the UN Charters and Resolutions.
pro_1_2	Brits now dominate the Malvinas; self-determination cannot apply	 Brits now dominate the Malvinas; self-determination cannot apply Argentina does not recognize the right to self-determination of the inhabitants of the Malvinas/Falklands, citing that they are not aboriginal and were brought to replace the Argentine population that Argentina claims was expelled after the re-establishment of British rule in 1833. In other words, Britain illegitimately settled the Falklands and now is trying to give these settlers the right to determine their future, which would obviously favor keeping the Malvinas under the British flag. It is illegitimate, therefore, to use "self-determination" to settle this dispute. Argentina's historical and territorial/geographical claims to the islands are paramount.
pro_1_3	Argentina can claim Malvinas and uphold the way of life of inhabitants	Argentina can claim Malvinas and uphold the way of life of inhabitants.  Embassy of Argentina in Australia - "The Argentine Nation ratifies its legitimate and imprescriptible sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands, South Georgia and South Sandwich and the corresponding maritime and island spaces, as they are an integral part of the national territory. The recovery of said territories and the full exercise of sovereignty, respectful of the way of life of their inhabitants and in accordance with the principles of International Law, are a permanent and irrenounceable objective of the Argentine people."
con_1_1	The Argentine population were not expelled, just the military personnel	The Argentine population were not expelled, just the military personnel The Civilian population led by Louis Vernet had permission to be there, the military personnel did not. This accusation is slander as there is no evidence to back this claim
con_1_2	Argentina inspired a poll on the islands in 1994	Argentina inspired a poll on the islands in 1994 this proves it's not the issue of self determination they disprove of it's the decision they don't like.
con_1_3	Between 1850 and 1941 there was just one isolated protest to the British over the islands sovereignty in 1888	Between 1850 and 1941 there was just one isolated protest to the British over the islands sovereignty in 1888 During these 90 whole years of no protest the islanders made many administrative acts which included immigration without the slightest protest from Argentina which means acquiescence. They didn't make a protest then it's immoral they make a protest now.
con_1_4	The Argentine government conquered land from the native peoples in South America years after the British re-establishment, prompting hypocrisy	The Argentine government conquered land from the native peoples in South America years after the British re-establishment, prompting hypocrisy The fact these people who are mostly white are accusing anyone of stealing land would make a horse laugh. BsAs control grew from the province of BsAs in 1810 to a nation the size of India in 80 years, annexing much land from the native peoples in particular Patagonia. They themselves mounted a campaign of implanting populations in Patagonia during the 1850-1888 period to seize control of land that was left by the Spanish and South American governments for the natives without their consultation. These implanted people, many ironically of British decent (Welsh) are perfectly entitled to Self-Determination according to the Argentine government.
con_1_5	Falkland Islanders have a right to self-determination	 Falkland Islanders have a right to self-determination Dr. Lyubomir Ivanov. "The Future Of The Falkland Islands And Its People". Feb. 2003 - "The Falklanders are a nation same like the Scots, the Welsh or the English -- or the people of Tokelau for that matter.  Moreover, their right to self-determination has already been officially and formally recognized and guaranteed by the British Government through the process of enacting the 1985 Falklands Constitution.  This act of transfer of prerogatives from London to Stanley entails that any future decisions regarding the sovereignty of the Islands would be up to the Falklanders alone to make, and this is irreversible. Once recognized/granted, the self-determination cannot be taken away."
con_1_6	Argentina’s allegations are unproven in an international tribunal	Argentina’s allegations are unproven in an international tribunal Unless Argentina's allegations are proven in an international Court the Islanders cannot be subject to any sanctions of any kind regardless. Argentina has deliberately avoided taking the matter to the International Court of Justice, attempting to use the 'veto' excuse. This of course is nonsense, as it never stopped Cameroon taking Britain to the ICJ in 1971 and the USA and USSR taking each other. Argentina recently took Uruguay to the ICJ.
con_1_7	Falkland Islands adopted a motion to remain British in 1977.	Falkland Islands adopted a motion to remain British in 1977. In 1977 the Falkland Islands Legislative Council adopted a motion that conveyed the will of the inhabitants to remain British. Therefore, the people of the Falkland Islands and their representatives have already excercised their right of self-determination, and determined to remain British.
con_1_8	The vast majority of Falkland Islanders want to remain British.	The vast majority of Falkland Islanders want to remain British. The wishes of the current inhabitants of the islands should be paramount. The islanders overwhelmingly consider themselves British and do not want to be ruled by Argentina. In an Argentine-inspired poll in 1994, 87% of the island's population rejected any form of discussion of sovereignty under any circumstances. Their right of self-determination should be respected. Unless and until the islanders want to be ruled by Argentina, Britain should not abandon them.
con_1_9	Britain expelled the military garrison in 1833, but did not expel the colony.	Britain expelled the military garrison in 1833, but did not expel the colony. There is ample evidence that Vernet's colony was not expelled during the British take over and not a shred of evidence that it was. Population Evolution for links regarding the evolution of the population from 1826 - 1834, before and after British takeover.
con_1_10	Rights to self-determination not limited to aboriginal peoples.	Rights to self-determination not limited to aboriginal peoples. There is nothing in international law or in any UN resolution that limits the rights of self-determination to territories with aboriginal peoples. In fact several territories that are or were on the UN's list of Non Self-Governing Territories do not have aboriginal populations: Currently on the list: Anguilla, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Montserrat, Pitcairn Islands, Saint Helena (inc Tristan da Cunha), Turks and Caicos Islands, US Virgin Islands. Formerly on the list: Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Cabo Verde, Cocos Islands, Guadaloupe, Jamaica, Martinique, Mauritius, Réunion, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Pierre and Miquelon, Seychelles
con_1_11	Spain's prerogative to complain about Britain's actions in 1833 not Argentina's.	Spain's prerogative to complain about Britain's actions in 1833 not Argentina's. In 1833 Spain had not relinquished her own claim to the Falklands, in fact she did not begin to relinquish any of her territories in the Americas till 1836, did not recognise Argentina till 1859, and when she recognised Argentina no transfer or cession of sovereignty over the Falklands took place, so it was Spain's prerogative to complain about what Britain did in 1833 not Argentina's. And Spain never did.
headline_2	Geography: Do the Falklands belong to Argentina on the basis of geography?
pro_2_1	Geography is irrelevant.	Geography is irrelevant. Just because somewhere looks close on a map of the world does not mean that they should belong to the nearest greater land mass. A childish argument that has no relevance to any serious debate about the islanders rights and freedoms.
pro_2_2	The Malvinas are far closer to Argentina (300m) than Britain (8000m).	The Malvinas are far closer to Argentina (300m) than Britain (8000m). The Malvinas are closer to Argentina than any other country in the world (300 miles). They are, however, on the other side of the Earth from Britain (8000 miles away). Modern nation states should not have territorial claims on the other side of the Earth, particularly when a modern nation state directly adjacent to the territory under consideration claims the territory. In this sense of the relative distance of the Malvinas islands from Britain and Argentina, Britain's claim to the islands is reminiscent of Britain's colonial past, is wrong, and should be ended.
pro_2_3	The Malvinas Islands are part of the South American continental shelf.	The Malvinas Islands are part of the South American continental shelf. Argentina claims the islands partly on the basis of the fact that the Malvinas are on the South American continental shelf, adjacent to the Argentinian coast. Because the islands are geographically contiguous with the South American continent, they should be either owned by Argentina or become entirely independent. Again, British ownership of these South American islands is reminiscent of its colonial past, is wrong, and should be ended.[1]
con_2_1	There are plenty of overseas territories from several different nations all over the world that are not disputed by the other closest nations	There are plenty of overseas territories from several different nations all over the world that are not disputed by the other closest nations. The islands are also 0 miles from the islanders who are self governing.
con_2_2	Malvinas are not considered part of South America	 Malvinas are not considered part of South America Hugh McManners. Forgotten Voices of the Falklands - "At their closest to Argentina, the Falklands are some two hundred and fifty miles from the tip of Tierra del Fuego, and over three hundred and fifty miles from the nearest Patagonian coast, and are not considered to be joined to South America’s continental shelf"
con_2_3	Argentina has an imperial past	Argentina has an imperial past After recognition from Spain, Argentina began the annexation of Patagonia which was left to the native people and involved genocide. They are in no position to lecture the British on imperialism.  Even though Argentina is still considerably closer to the Islands the UK, This annexation process   inevitably brought the islands closer to BsAs control.
con_2_4	It is irrelevant whether Malvinas are part of South America	 It is irrelevant whether Malvinas are part of South America Hugh McManners. Forgotten Voices of the Falklands - "International law regards various offshore distances as being of significance to territorial disputes: three miles, seven miles and twenty-one miles, with two hundred miles as an absolute limit. Territorial contiguity (via an undersea continental shelf) does not seem to have much force in international law; otherwise presumably the Canaries would belong to Morocco."
headline_3	Discovery: Did Spain or Britain first discover the Falklands/Malvinas?
pro_3_1	A few notable dates :	A few notable dates : 1690 – the waterway between the two islands is named ‘Falkland Sound’ by  Captain John Strong from the ship Welfare. 1712 – the name ‘Falkland Islands’ is used in a publication describing the Welfare’s journey. 1716 – a French map refers to the islands as ‘Les Isles Nouvelles’. 1722 – a new French map refers to the islands as ‘Les Iles Malouines’. 1764 – France founds a settlement on the Falkland Islands at Port Loius but makes no formal claim. 1765 – Captain John Byron explores the islands and claims them for King George III as the Falkland Islands. 1766 – Captain John MacBride founds the settlement of Port Egmont , named after the sponsor of the Byron expedition. Cattle, goats, sheep and pigs taken to the islands. 1767 – France cedes Port Louis to Spain in exchange for compensation. Port Louis is renamed Puerto Soledad. Captain John McBride of HMS Jason is Military Commander of Port Egmont. Spain only seems to have noticed the islands in 1767.
pro_3_2	Spanish explorer Megellan was first to discover Malvinas	 Spanish explorer Megellan was first to discover Malvinas Embassy of Argentina in Australia - "For most of the 16th century only navigators in the service of Spain traveled the maritime routes along the South American coast, advancing southwards in their search for an inter-oceanic passage. In this process the Malvinas Islands were discovered by members of Magellan’s expedition of 1520. From that moment on they were recorded on European maps under a variety of names and remained under effective control of the Spanish authorities."
con_3_1	Only tenuous evidence that Magellan discovered Malvinas	 Only tenuous evidence that Magellan discovered Malvinas "The Argentine Seizure Of The Malvinas (Falkland) Islands", History and Diplomacy. Global Security. 1987 - "The British maintain that the Spanish claim that Magellan discovered the Islands in 1540 rests on imprecise evidence."
con_3_2	British explorers were the first to discover the Islands	 British explorers were the first to discover the Islands "The Argentine Seizure Of The Malvinas (Falkland) Islands", History and Diplomacy. Global Security. 1987 - "British explorers were the first to discover the Islands: John Davis in 1592 and Sir John Hawkins in 1594 and the first known landing on the Islands was by British Captain John Strong in 1690."
headline_4	History of sovereignty: Had Spain controlled the Malvinas more than Britain?
pro_4_1	Spain's discovery and control of Malvinas was recognized in treaties	 Spain's discovery and control of Malvinas was recognized in treaties Embassy of Argentina in Australia - "For most of the 16th century only navigators in the service of Spain travelled the maritime routes along the South American coast, advancing southwards in their search for an inter-oceanic passage. In this process the Malvinas Islands were discovered by members of Magellan’s expedition of 1520. From that moment on they were recorded on European maps under a variety of names and remained under effective control of the Spanish authorities."
pro_4_2	Spain had purchased the Islands from France in 1767.	Spain had purchased the Islands from France in 1767. France was the first country to establish a settlement on the Islands. By international law, mere sightings of new territories are considered insufficient to establish legal claim to them. On the basis of the Treaty of Utrecht, signed in 1713, England and France formally agreed to Spanish sovereignty over its traditional territories in the Americas, including the Islands, Spain had objected. France, Spain's ally, was willing to negotiate and sold Port Louis to Spain in 1767.
pro_4_3	Spain peacefully occupied Malvinas until Argentinian independence in 1816.	Spain peacefully occupied Malvinas until Argentinian independence in 1816. The Islands were peacefully occupied and administered by 19 Spanish governors from 1774 until Argentina declared independence in 1816.
pro_4_4	Argentina built public facilities on the Malvinas Islands.	Argentina built public facilities on the Malvinas Islands. Permanent settlements were built by Argentina in the 1820s. Previous settlements by France, Spain and Britain had been impermanent. Britain did not protest when the Argentinean settlements were first established. The Argentinean settlements were only ended by illegal British military force. Britain’s subsequent settlement of the islands was therefore illegal.
con_4_1	This question is of no real relevance as Spain recognised Britains rights to the islands in 1771	This question is of no real relevance as Spain recognised Britains rights to the islands in 1771 This agreement can only be cancelled mutually. (P7) http://www.wildisland.gs/atlantis/gettingitright.pdf
con_4_2	Britain never accepted Spanish Sovereignty	 Britain never accepted Spanish Sovereignty "The Argentine Seizure Of The Malvinas (Falkland) Islands", History and Diplomacy. Global Security. 1987 - "Britain never accepted the Spanish claim to sovereignty over the Islands based on purchase from France."
con_4_3	Britain has peacefully controlled the Falklands for two centuries.	Britain has peacefully controlled the Falklands for two centuries. Spain had control over Puerto Soledad between 1767 and 1811 and never ventured outside of that restricted area as deemed by the agreement of 1771. After 1811, Spain never returned and effectively abandoned its claim. The British claim runs from 1765 and has never been abandoned, having been continued, in the absence of a garrison, by whaling and sealing ventures. Having peacefully controlled the Falkland islands for nearly two-hundred years now (since 1833), Britain has upheld the doctrine of prescription, which states that sovereignty of a territory can be established by peaceful occupation over a period of time.[2]
con_4_4	Argentina's historical claim to the Falklands is too outdated.	Argentina's historical claim to the Falklands is too outdated. Nations often can claim that they, or their ancestors, once controlled a territory. But, if all of these claims were recognized, the world's boundaries would be in turmoil, as many separate peoples would have a legitimate claim to some territory. To get around this problem, we must give precedent to more modern and contemporary historical claims. Since Britain has controlled the Falklands for nearly two-hundred years, its claim takes precedence. Moreover the arguement is backed by the unanimous support of the islanders themselves claiming to be British citizens.
headline_5	Abandoned claims: Did Britain ever abandon its claim to the Falklands?
pro_5_1	Britain abandoned the Malvinas between 1774 and 1833.	Britain abandoned the Malvinas between 1774 and 1833. British did not claim the Islands when Spain left them in 1811. Britain recognized Argentina's independence in 1825 but made no claim at that time to the Islands which were then governed by Argentina.
pro_5_2	Plaque left after Britain left the Malvinas in 1774 limits their claim	 Plaque left after Britain left the Malvinas in 1774 limits their claim "The Argentine Seizure Of The Malvinas (Falkland) Islands", History and Diplomacy. Global Security. 1987 - "The plaque left by the British when they abandoned Port Egmdnt in 1774 refers to only one 'island' on which Port Egmont is located."
pro_5_3	UK planned to give the Falkland Islands to Argentina	 UK planned to give the Falkland Islands to Argentina "1968 Secret History- The Falklands War of 1982 might never have been necessary"The UK Government prepared a secret deal in 1968 to give Argentina ownership of the Falkland Islands, it has been revealed. An Argentine draft Memorandum of Understanding, largely accepted by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, is one of the documents released after 30 years of being locked in government vaults. Dated 5 July 1968, it reads: "The government of the United Kingdom will recognise Argentine sovereignty over the islands with effect from a date to be agreed."
con_5_1	Britain did not abandon its claim, it evacuated the settlement.	Britain did not abandon its claim, it evacuated the settlement. The islands were regularly settled for short periods of time by English whalers and sealers. Evacuating the islands but visiting regularly can hardly be seen as 'abandonment'. When Jewett made his 'claim' on behalf of Argentina, there were already 50 U.s. and British ships at anchor.
con_5_2	The 1820-1825 Jewett/treaty story is a fallacy	The 1820-1825 Jewett/treaty story is a fallacy. The British had no reason to believe Argentina had inherited the islands in 1816 as there was no BsAs authority on the islands at the time of independence. The claim Argentina took possession of the Islands in 1820 with the arrival of the American Privateer David Jewett is also a falsehood. There is no evidence of the Argentine government giving Jewett orders to take possession of those Islands, so it obviously couldn’t be taken as so by anyone present on the islands. When Jewett returned he wrote a report mentioning nothing of the claim. Also the then BsAs government made no public announcement of the ‘taking of possession’, so there could be no reaction. When the UK signed that treaty in 1825, there was nobody from Argentina on those islands, so there was no authority to recognise. The treaty made no reference to the extent of the BsAs controlled territory let alone mentions the islands. http://www.wildisland.gs/atlantis/gettingitright.pdf
con_5_3	Britains rights are not justified by only a plaque, that is a ridiculous assertion	Britains rights are not justified by only a plaque, that is a ridiculous assertion. They are justified by the 1771 agreement with Spain where both nations respected each others rights to the islands. As long as Spain had rights Britain also had rights unless the treaty was cancelled by agreement. See page 7 http://www.wildisland.gs/atlantis/gettingitright.pdf
con_5_4	Britain never relinquished its claim to the Falklands	 Britain never relinquished its claim to the Falklands "The Argentine Seizure Of The Malvinas (Falkland) Islands", History and Diplomacy. Global Security. 1987 - "The British never relinquished their claim to the Islands when they abandoned Port Egmont in 1774. Proof lies in the plaque which was left behind."
con_5_5	Spain vacated her settlement in 1811.	Spain vacated her settlement in 1811. Any argument against Britain allegedly abandoning its claim to the Falklands is negated by the fact that Spain abandoned its settlements in the Malvinas in 1811. If both abandoned there claims for some period of time, neither can use the other's abandonment of the islands as evidence for their side. If Spain was the only one to abandon its claim to the Falklands, Britain can use this argument in its favor.
con_5_6	Britain secured it's rights with the Spanish in the 1771 agreement	Britain secured it's rights with the Spanish in the 1771 agreement. This agreement could only be cancelled by agreement of the two nations. As long as Spain had rights the British had rights too. Physical abandonment does not mean political abandonment in a sovereignty case regardless.
headline_6	1833: Did Britain acquire the Falklands by illegitimate means then?
pro_6_1	Britain usurped the Malvinas in 1833 by illegitimate means	 Britain usurped the Malvinas in 1833 by illegitimate means "The Argentine Seizure Of The Malvinas (Falkland) Islands", History and Diplomacy. Global Security. 1987 - "Argentines insist they perfected their title to the Islands during the years from 1829 to 1833 and that displacement of her citizens by Britain in 1833 was 'an act of usurpation carried out by illegal means.'"
con_6_1	Vernet and his settlers had British permission to be on the islands.	Vernet and his settlers had British permission to be on the islands. The Argentine forces did not and they were expelled. Britains rights to the islands were secured by the 1771 agreement and the intervention of a third party (BsAs authority) on the islands allowed the UK's return under the Nookta sound convention. There was no binding universal law or tribunial that proved Spain and Britain lost their rights to the islands or that BsAs had gained them.
con_6_2	Britain acted entirely legally.	Britain acted entirely legally. Vernett's settlement was with the permission of the British Consul who had been approached by Vernett. There is some evidence that Vernett was playing both sides against the middle. Not that Vernett's settlement was affected by the British actions in 1833. HMS Clio required only the trespassing Argentine garrison to leave and that garrison had only been on the islands 2 months. Charles Dawin's diary clearly shows that on his visit on 1st March 1833 there were 22 'settlers' most of whom were Argentine workers for Vernett. He also mentioned one Englishman who had been on the islands "for some years". Vernett added 7 more workers to the settlement shortly afterwards. In ejecting the illegal Argentine garrison, HMS Clio was asserting the British claim of 1765. Jewett's claim of the islands for 'Argentina' in 1820 cannot stand because: a)the claim was for the United Provinces of South America which had ceased to exist as a unified 'nation' that same year, and went on to become Argentina, Bolivia and Uruguay, b) the islands already had two claimants neither of which had 'abandoned' their claims, and c) in the eyes of the two existing claimants, Spain and Britain, there was no such place as 'Argentina' (recognised by the British in 1825 and Spain in 1859). As such Jewett was merely restating the Spanish claim.
headline_7	Argentinian independence: Did Argentina inherit the Malvinas upon gaining independence?
pro_7_1	Argentina properly inherited the Islands from Spain in 1816.	Argentina properly inherited the Islands from Spain in 1816. The Malvinas Islands were formerly ruled by Spain from Buenos Aires. When Argentina gained independence in 1816, it naturally inherited the Malvinas Islands from Spain.
con_7_1	Argentina's inheritance claim is self righteous as there was no binding universal international law at that time, meaning no rights for inheriting land they did not control during their unilateral independence	Argentina's inheritance claim is self righteous as there was no binding universal international law at that time, meaning no rights for inheriting land they did not control during their unilateral independence Uti Possidetis juris was not international law until the 1940's. The ancient theory of Uti Posseditis what was never the international law at the time. It was just a theory or 'principle' back then as there was no no binding universal international law in the 1800's to control nations. So this claim is nothing more than a self righteous falsehood, and cannot be legally binding. It was never Argentina's right, especially when they never controlled it during the independence period.
con_7_2	Argentina’s independence was unilateral; no claim to Falklands.	Argentina’s independence was unilateral; no claim to Falklands. A unilateral state is only entitled to claim what it controls at the time of independence nothing more, and that has never been any different. There is no evidence of anyone being ordered to travel to those island by BsAs authority until 1823, 7 years after your own unilateral independence of 1816. Argentina tried to colonise the islands that's the truth. Argentina often attempts to make the comparison with the USA's independence claim. However this is false as the USA only claimed what they controlled what at the time of independence, the 13 states.
con_7_3	Spain did not recognise Argentina until 1859,	Spain did not recognise Argentina until 1859, 26 years after Britain had reasserted its earlier claim. It is highly debatable whether a revolting colony can inherit anything and in Spain's recognition of Argentina it failed to provide for any inheritance. Indeed how can anyone inherit something that's long been lost?
con_7_4	Argentina had no more right to Falklands than Britain	 Argentina had no more right to Falklands than Britain "The Argentine Seizure Of The Malvinas (Falkland) Islands", History and Diplomacy. Global Security. 1987 - "Britain insists that Argentina had no more right to claim inheritance of the Islands after she declared her independence from Spain in 1816 than over other separate and independent countries such as Uruguay and Paraguay."
con_7_5	Unilateral secession does not confer rights of territorial inheritance.	Unilateral secession does not confer rights of territorial inheritance. A territorial inheritance or succession requires a territorial cession. Argentina achieved its independence by violent means against the opposition of Spain who did not begin the recognise the independence of any of her American colonies till 1836. When she recognised Argentina in 1859, no cession of sovereignty over the Falklands took place. Argentina can no more inherit what Spain never ceded to her, than a man can inherit from his father what his father never left him in his will.
headline_8	Secret deal: Did Britain secretly agree to give the Malvinas to Argentina?
pro_8_1	Britain secretly promised to abandon its claim before 1771.	Britain secretly promised to abandon its claim before 1771. Britain made these promises during negotiations leading to the peace declarations of 1771.
pro_8_2	UK planned to give the Falkland Islands to Argentina	 UK planned to give the Falkland Islands to Argentina "1968 Secret History- The Falklands War of 1982 might never have been necessary"The UK Government prepared a secret deal in 1968 to give Argentina ownership of the Falkland Islands, it has been revealed. An Argentine draft Memorandum of Understanding, largely accepted by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, is one of the documents released after 30 years of being locked in government vaults. Dated 5 July 1968, it reads: "The government of the United Kingdom will recognise Argentine sovereignty over the islands with effect from a date to be agreed."
con_8_1	The terms 'prepared' 'will' and 'draft'are not binding just speculation	 The terms 'prepared' 'will' and 'draft'are not binding just speculation. Since the implementation of resolution 1514 the British government has always maintained it would only transfer sovereignty if the population requested it. Spain recognised Britains rights to the islands in 1771 allowing the British to physically leave the islands. This agreement can only be cancelled mutually. Physical abandonment does not mean politcal abandonment. Argentina claims the islands are theirs despite the fact nobody with BsAs authority orders to do so, set one foot on the islands until 1823 (7 years after independence and 13 after taking control of BsAs)
con_8_2	Actually it went something like this:	Actually it went something like this: 1769 – Captain Anthony Hunt, HMS Tamar is Military Commander of Port Egmont. (Nov) Hunt requires a Spanish schooner seen surveying the area, to leave. The Governor of Puerto Soledad objects, stating that the islands are Spanish. Captain Hunt responds by indicating that the islands are British by right of first discovery and settlement.
con_8_3	There is no evidence of any agreement to hand the islands over to the Spanish.	There is no evidence of any agreement to hand the islands over to the Spanish. Indeed, as Spain had backed down, there were recriminations within Britain as to why more concessions had not been demanded. Suggestions of any agreement is a fantasy. The 'satisfaction' demanded, and granted, was a return to the status quo.
con_8_4	Britain never secretly agreed to give Falklands to Argentina	 Britain never secretly agreed to give Falklands to Argentina "The Argentine Seizure Of The Malvinas (Falkland) Islands", History and Diplomacy. Global Security. 1987 - "The British disavow knowledge of the "secret understanding" which Spain alleged was made prior to the signing of the exchange of peace declarations in 1771. The British declaration made no comment on the issue of sovereignty. The British claim both sides accepted a return to the status quo."
headline_9	Nootka Sound Convention: Did Britain renounce its claim to South American islands?
pro_9_1	Argentina always claimed the Falklands; Britain once renounced its claim.	Argentina always claimed the Falklands; Britain once renounced its claim. Great Britain abandoned its settlement in 1776, and formally renounced sovereignty in the Nootka Sound Convention. Argentina has always claimed the Falklands, and never renounced its claim.
con_9_1	Britain never renounced it's claim the Nookta Sound treaty supported the 1771 agreement	Britain never renounced it's claim the Nookta Sound treaty supported the 1771 agreement. Also Argentine did renounce it's claim by failing to protest for two lengthy periods and by an all encompassing treaty between the two nations. After 1833 the Buenos Aires province under governor Rosas protested to the British until 1850. In 1850 Britain and Argentina signed the Convention of Settlement Treaty which settled All differences and created Perfect relations between the two nations and the islands remained in British control. There were no further protests from Argentina until they completed their annexation of Patagonia. The then Argentine goverment under President Celman tried their luck by protesting in 1888 and offering to take the matter to arbitration. However Britain refused, in view of the 1850 treaty and considered the matter was closed. The Argentine goverment did not continue the protest to Britain and there was not another protest to the British until 1941. In the 90 whole years of non-protest between 1850 and 1941, there were several adminstrative acts on the islands including the formation of a government and immigration without any interference from Argentina. Failure to protest is a form of acceptance.
con_9_2	In the 1771 agreement both the UK and Spain, respected each others claim for the islands	In the 1771 agreement both the UK and Spain, respected each others claim for the islands The Nookta Spund convention was signed after in 1790 and the 1771 agreement was not nullified but respected. It is also only for the Spanish to protest against.
con_9_3	Nootka Sound Convention does not apply to UK in Falklands	 Nootka Sound Convention does not apply to UK in Falklands. It is debatable that it applies to the Falklands. It refers to adjacent islands. The Falklands at 300 nautical miles from Argentina are not adjacent to Argentina. Second, it was suspended in 1795 due to war between the two countries. It may or may not have been renewed in 1814 after the war. Third, it's a reciprocal treaty. Both countries, Spain as well as Great Britain (the respective subjects), were forbidden to form establishments on the coasts mentioned. Spain, by forming settlements late 18th -early 19th century in what is now San Clemente del Tuyú (directly south of the Banda Oriental -now Uruguay), was in breach of the Convention. See the argument page for an extension of this argument.
con_9_4	The Nookta Sound convention did not affect Britains rights to the islands as they already had an agreement with Spain where both nations rights were secured in 1771	The Nookta Sound convention did not affect Britains rights to the islands as they already had an agreement with Spain where both nations rights were secured in 1771. On the contrary, when Argentina interfered this allowed Britain to intervene as they were a third party, and had no right to be there. In any case a treaty can only be cancelled by mutual agreement and it is only up to the parties involved to protest if they feel it has been breached. This has nothing to do with Argentina.
headline_10	1982 War: Were Britain's actions in the 1982 war illegitimate?
pro_10_1	Britain sent its soldiers to fight an unjust war in the Falkland Islands.	Britain sent its soldiers to fight an unjust war in the Falkland Islands. Their sacrifices do not make British occupation of the islands legal. Indeed, Britain’s conduct of that war has been much questioned, in particular the sinking of the Argentine ship General Belgrano when it was many miles from the combat zone and heading away from it, and the mysterious deaths of some surrendered Argentine soldiers.
con_10_1	The British had permission from the UN to use reasonable force to retake the islands	The British had permission from the UN to use reasonable force to retake the islands. The Junta was ordered to remove their forces from the islands under Resolution 502. As this did not happen the British forces intervened. As for the Belgrano it was outside of that exclusion zone but that was no law! Britain had the right to attack anything in self defence including Military bases in Argentina if need be.
con_10_2	The Argentines invaded British territory.	The Argentines invaded British territory. They were removed just as they had been when they invaded in 1832. As with their restution of claim in the 1940's the Argentine Government acts when it thinks that Britain is weak and unprepared to defend its outposts. They were wrong on two occassions. It remains to be seen whether they'll go for a hat trick!
con_10_3	Returning the Falkland Islands would be an insult to dead soldiers.	Returning the Falkland Islands would be an insult to dead soldiers. 6. If Britain returned the islands, it would be a profound insult to the soldiers who fought and died to liberate them in 1982. The campaign was honourably fought in defence of the rights of the people of the Falkland Islands to determine their own future. It was fought against a military dictatorship which used the campaign in a cynical attempt to divert domestic attention away from its oppressive, corrupt and incompetent rule. One of the positive consequences of British victory was that the military junta fell from power and Argentina became democratic. So Britain, Argentina and the Falkland islanders all have cause to celebrate the outcome of the 1982-83 war.
headline_11	Decolonization: Is returning the Malvinas consistent with decolonization?
pro_11_1	British occupation of Malvinas Islands perpetuates colonialism	 British occupation of Malvinas Islands perpetuates colonialism Britain's control over the Falkland islands, a group of islands thousands of miles away, appears colonial in nature. This is bad for Britain's image and its post-war policy of decolonisation, which has seen it withdraw from almost every other colonial possession since 1945. Not only has Britain withdrawn from India, Africa, Malaysia and much of the Caribbean, it has also handed back Hong Kong to China – surely a similar case to that of the Falkland islands and Argentina.
pro_11_2	Britain exploiting Falkland Islands for natural resources	 Britain exploiting Falkland Islands for natural resources "Argentina talks tough over new claim to the Falkland Islands". The Times. 27 June 2006 - "Buenos Aires has grown impatient with London’s refusal to enter negotiations over sovereignty, believing that Britain has abused its position to exploit fishing rights at the expense of Argentine trawlers."
con_11_1	The UN resolution that deals with decoloization (1514) does not demand it if the inhabitants don't want it, simple	The UN resolution that deals with decoloization (1514) does not demand it if the inhabitants don't want it, simple. The suggestion Britain and other nations with overseas territorites are judged badly for it is nonsense. One of the Worlds biggest sporting events is the Commonweath games, where 17 dependencies proudly participate along with 54 other nations without any animosity from anyone.
con_11_3	Taking a 'colony' from one coloniser and giving it to another can hardly be right.	Taking a 'colony' from one coloniser and giving it to another can hardly be right. The islanders have a right to self determination under the UN Charters and Resolutions. Independence is the only alternative. 
headline_12	Legality: Is it legal for Britain to occupy the Falkland Islands?
pro_12_1	The Islands have been British since 1833.	The Islands have been British since 1833. There really is no debate about this. Some of the historical facts can be picked over but the reality is that the islands have been British, solely British, since 1833. Can't get much more legal than the reality of that.
pro_12_2	Britain’s occupation of the Falklands was/is illegal.	Britain’s occupation of the Falklands was/is illegal. Both Argentina and the islands were ruled by Spain. Spain ruled the islands from Argentina – they were therefore part of the same territory. Upon independence from Spain, Argentina rightfully asserted sovereignty over the former Spanish territory. Britain did not claim sovereignty over the islands when Spain left them in 1811. Nor did Britain immediately challenge Argentina’s assertion of sovereignty in 1816. For these reasons, Britain's invasion and occupation of the Falkland Islands in 1833 was illegal under international law; Britain could not make a legitimate claim to the country.
pro_12_3	Spain gave Argentina sovereignty over the Falkand Islands.	Spain gave Argentina sovereignty over the Falkand Islands. Sovereignty of the islands was transferred to Argentina from Spain upon independence, a principle known as uti possidetis juris.
pro_12_4	The Falklands are the Malvinas and are part of Argentina.	The "Falklands" are the Malvinas and are part of Argentina. President Kirchner - "The Malvinas are Argentine and they will return to Argentina by peaceful means."[3]
pro_12_5	Legitimate negotiations over the Falklands must be done through UN.	Legitimate negotiations over the Falklands must be done through UN. Argentine Vice-President Daniel Scioli said in 2007, "Once again, we urge the United Kingdom to heed international calls and resume negotiations in the appropriate manner, through the United Nations."[4]
con_12_1	There was no binding universal international law in the 1800's that supports Argentina's inheritance claim and plenty of evidence to support Britains	There was no binding universal international law in the 1800's that supports Argentina's inheritance claim and plenty of evidence to support Britains The only international laws where treaties amoungst nations. Argentinas claim of uti posseditis is a self-righteous fallacy as there was no binding universal international law back then that supported it. Argentina never got it's independence in 1816 through devolution, it was unilateral. A unilateral state can only claim what it controls at the time of independence, nothing more. There is no evidence of anyone being ordered by the BsAs government to go to the islands before independence or 1823 (that includes Jewett in 1820). The UK's rights to the islands were recognised by Spain in 1771 and it's right to return by third party intervention (Nookta Sound Treaty) http://www.wildisland.gs/atlantis/gettingitright.pdf
con_12_2	Britain first claimed the Falklands in 1690 and never renounced the claim.	Britain first claimed the Falklands in 1690 and never renounced the claim. Britain never accepted the Spanish claim to sovereignty, based on the purchase of the islands from France. Britain asserted sovereignty when it left the islands in 1774, leaving a plaque. It therefore had no need to re-assert sovereignty when Spain left in 1811. Britain’s claim far predates Argentina’s. Argentina had no right to assert sovereignty over the islands in 1816.
con_12_3	Britain offered to take Argentina's claim to the Falklands to the ICJ.	Britain offered to take Argentina's claim to the Falklands to the ICJ. Following the Argentine claim, the United Kingdom offered to take the dispute to mediation at the International Court of Justice in the Hague (1947, 1948 and 1955), on each occasion Argentina declined.
con_12_4	The Falklands have been continuously occupied by the UK since 1833.	The Falklands have been continuously occupied by the UK since 1833. The exception to this long period of nearly two centuries of British occupation of the Falkland Islands was a two month illegal occupation of the islands by Argentina.
con_12_5	Argentina never really attempted to colonize the Falklands.	Argentina never really attempted to colonize the Falklands. Its attempts to colonize the Falklands 1820-33 were "sporadic and ineffectual".
con_12_6	The British were the first to settle in the Falkland Islands.	The British were the first to settle in the Falkland Islands. There was no settlement, indigenous or otherwise, before the British came to the Falklands.
headline_13	Strategic Value: Is it necessary for Britain to continue its occupation of the islands?
pro_13_1	Economically, the islands will be an energy asset to Britain.	Economically, the islands will be an energy asset to Britain.If military costs are excluded, the islands are self-supporting. They are of great value because they bring rights to fishing and oil exploration. If the oil that has been detected in the islands’ territory can be extracted economically, the islands will be an even greater asset to Britain.
pro_13_2	Strategically, the islands is a NATO airbase in the south Atlantic.	Strategically, the islands is a NATO airbase in the south Atlantic.
con_13_1	The islands no longer has strategic value to Britain.	The islands no longer has strategic value to Britain. The islands are of minimal value to Britain. In an era of satellites and long-range ships and aircraft, the islands no longer have strategic value. Maintaining a garrison there is an unnecessary expense. Jorge Luis Borges (an Argentinean writer) likened the 1982 conflict to ‘two bald men fighting over a comb’.
headline_14	Diplomacy: Will returning the islands UK-Argentina-South American relations?
pro_14_1	Argentina-UK relations will be strained until the Falklands are returned.	Argentina-UK relations will be strained until the Falklands are returned. Former Argentinian president Nestor Kirchner declared on 2 April 2006, that Argentina's claim to the Falklands is "permanent and cannot be renounced."[5] In 2008, pressure by the Argentinian government was ramped up even more on the issue. Until the Malvinas are returned, it would appear that the issue will continue to be a major source of strain between the UK and Argentina.
pro_14_2	Returning the Falklands to Argentina would improve US-relations with the region.	Returning the Falklands to Argentina would improve US-relations with the region. Returning the islands would vastly improve Britain’s relationship with Argentina and Latin America as a whole. This would help Britain’s diplomatic and economic ties with the region.
pro_14_3	British possession of the Falklands causes tension and risks war.	British possession of the Falklands causes tension and risks war. The British possession of the Falklands resulted in a war with Argentina over the islands in 1983. There is a real possibility that another war could break out in the coming decades. If Britain returns the islands to Argentina, this risk will be entirely eliminated.
con_14_1	The issue has no real effect over Argentine-British relations in other areas	The issue has no real effect over Argentine-British relations in other areas There has never been or is there likely to be any sanctions imposed against the British by Argentina, let alone South America. Trade between the two nations is like any other outside the EU as is travel, sporting competitions and immigration issues. The British Bank HSBC has a tower in close and clear view of the Plaza de Mayo and Casa Posada government house. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Plaza_de_Mayo_0022.jpg The fact that anyone would think this issue effects any relations in any capacity with the other Latin American nations to Britain’s regret is completely without evidence and proves the sheer magnitude of the ignorance and arrogance of these people.
con_14_2	Relations with Argentina are not important to Britain.	Relations with Argentina are not important to Britain. Britain already has a working relationship with Argentina. In 2001, Tony Blair became the first British prime minister to visit Argentina since the 1982 conflict. The agreements made with the Menem government show the potential for peaceful cooperation without returning the islands. Kirchner’s sabre-rattling will probably decline after the presidential election in 2007. In any case, direct relations with Argentina are of little strategic or economic importance to Britain, except where they affect the Falkland Islands. Trade policy is handled on both sides at a supra-national level, through the EU and Mercosur respectively. The Falkland Islands are simply not like other examples of decolonisation. Elsewhere Britain has given independence to the indigenous peoples of its former colonial possessions, responding to their desire for self-determination. The Falklands have no indigenous population – their inhabitants regard themselves as British in identity and have no desire to be ruled by Argentina.
headline_15	Precedent: Would returning the Falklands set a bad precedent?
pro_15_1	Returning the islands would not be a sign that violence and threats are legitimate.	Returning the islands would not be a sign that violence and threats are legitimate. It would be recognition of the justice of Argentina’s claim and the illegality of Britain’s occupation of the islands. In fact, it would show that illegal acts of violence, like that of 1833, will eventually be overturned.
con_15_1	You can't return something that was never theirs	You can't return something that was never theirs If the Argentine government has no doubts about their claim, they should have no doubts about taking the matter to the International Court of Justice like Cameroon did against Britain in 1971. The idea the Junta invaded those islands knowing full well they could have taken them legally or at the very least proved their case in a courtroom, is beggars belief.
con_15_2	Returning the islands would imply that violence and threats are legitimate ways to conduct diplomacy.	Returning the islands would imply that violence and threats are legitimate ways to conduct diplomacy. Britain would be giving in to the invasion of 1982 and Kirchner’s more recent rhetoric. This would set a dangerous precedent that Britain will abandon its interests if threatened.
headline_16	International: What is international opinion regarding the Falkland Islands?
pro_16_1	South American support for return of Falklands is growing	 South American support for return of Falklands is growing Richard Gott. "Argentina's claim on the Falklands is still a good one". The Guardian. 2 Apr. 2007 - "because much of Latin America is now falling into the hands of the nationalist left, the government in Buenos Aires will enjoy growing rhetorical support in the continent (and indeed elsewhere, from the current government in Iraq, for example), to the increasing discomfiture of Britain. All governments in Argentina, of whatever stripe, will continue to claim the Malvinas, just as governments in Belgrade will always lay claim to Kosovo."
pro_16_2	Mercosur supports Argentina's claim to the Malvinas	 Mercosur supports Argentina's claim to the Malvinas
pro_16_3	The Rio Group has supported Argentina's claim to the Malvinas	 The Rio Group has supported Argentina's claim to the Malvinas
pro_16_4	Peru vocally supports the Argentinian claim to the Falklands.	Peru vocally supports the Argentinian claim to the Falklands. It provided material aid during the Falklands War.
pro_16_5	Brazil has favored Argentina's claim to the Falklands.	Brazil has favored Argentina's claim to the Falklands.
pro_16_6	Post-Pinochet Chile has supported Argentina's claim to the Falklands.	Post-Pinochet Chile has supported Argentina's claim to the Falklands. democratic governments have given greater support to the Argentine claim .
pro_16_7	Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez supports Argentina's claim to the Malvinas.	Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez supports Argentina's claim to the Malvinas. He has said, "Those islands are Argentina's. Return them, Mr. Blair, those islands are Argentina's." [33]
pro_16_8	Spain supports Argentina's claim to the Malvinas islands.	Spain supports Argentina's claim to the Malvinas islands., although part of the European Union, has given tacit support to the Argentine claim, voting in the Argentine interest in UN Security Council votes during the Falklands War.
con_16_1	In 65 years of the United Nations, Argentina has failed to get any substantial support	In 65 years of the United Nations, Argentina has failed to get any substantial support Out of 192 UN member nations, only 33 (17%) support Argentina's mandate for sovereignty change. All of them are members of the OAS. Spain has never formally supported Argentina's claim. Chile has had a consulate on the islands.
con_16_2	The European Union classes the Falklands as a special overseas territory	The European Union classes the Falklands as a special overseas territory, subject to EU law in some areas, and eligible for some European funding initiatives. The inclusion of the islands in an appendix to the proposed European constitution provoked a hostile Argentine response.
con_16_3	France has been particularly supportive of the British position	France has been particularly supportive of the British position, and provided invaluable help to the British military on the French supplied aircraft and missiles of the Argentine military during the Falklands War. France is also motivated by the fact that it, like the UK, retains many overseas territories that are subject to rival sovereignty claims including the Glorioso Islands, Mayotte and Tromelin.
con_16_4	The Commonwealth of Nations recognises the Falklands as British territory.	The Commonwealth of Nations recognises the Falklands as British territory. The Falkland Islands are not represented in the Commonwealth as they are not an independent state, but they do participate in the Commonwealth Games.
