title	EU constitution reform treaty (Lisbon Treaty)
question	Is the EU Constitution reform treaty a good idea?
headline_1	Another Constitution? Is the Lisbon Treaty just another EU Constitution?
pro_1_1	The Lisbon Treaty is not a veiled EU Constitution	 The Lisbon Treaty is not a veiled EU Constitution "Q&A: The Lisbon Treaty". BBC. 1 July 2008 - If it contains the same substance, why is the Lisbon Treaty not a constitution?
con_1_1	The Lisbon Treaty simply repackages the failed EU Constitution	 The Lisbon Treaty simply repackages the failed EU Constitution "The Case for no vote". Lisbon Treaty Information Campaign - "Lisbon is the EU Constitution in another guise – it’s just been repackaged as a Treaty because it was soundly rejected by French and Dutch voters in 2005. Lisbon retains 96% of the EU Constitution, and makes it very clear that EU law will be superior to the Irish Constitution. This means your constitutional rights can be overruled."
headline_2	Centralization/sovereignty: Is greater centralization a good thing?
pro_2_1	Lisbon better decentralizes power to national governments (subsidiarity)	 Lisbon better decentralizes power to national governments (subsidiarity) - "Treaty of Lisbon. Questions and Answers". Europea.eu - "Will national parliaments have a greater say in European affairs? [...] Yes. National parliaments are for the first time fully recognised as part of the democratic fabric of the European Union. Special arrangements are made to help national parliaments to become more closely involved in the work of the Union." 
pro_2_2	Lisbon Treaty reforms the EU; it does not give it broad new powers	  Lisbon Treaty reforms the EU; it does not give it broad new powers The Lisbon Treaty does not add sweeping new powers to the EU over national governments. Rather, it clarifies existing powers and responsibilities, and streamlines the relations between the EU and national governments so that they can work more effectively.
pro_2_3	Lisbon treaty integration is right vision for Europe	 Lisbon treaty integration is right vision for Europe Alberto Alesina. "Europe Was Going Too Far". 22 June 2008 - "We think it should be about deep economic integration and the coordination of policies with clearly identifiable cross-national externalities. Nothing more, nothing less."
con_2_1	Lisbon's new powers for parliaments are mere oversight powers	 Lisbon's new powers for parliaments are mere oversight powers "An alternative guide to the Lisbon Treaty". Sinn Fein, Liberal Irish political party. - "Parliaments in member states Parliaments in member states are to be given two new mechanisms for monitoring proposed EU laws...These new powers for member state parliaments are minimal oversight powers, nothing more."
con_2_2	The Lisbon Treaty threatens the sovereignty of EU states	 The Lisbon Treaty threatens the sovereignty of EU states Sally McNamara. "The EU Reform Treaty: A Threat to the Transatlantic Alliance". Heritage Foundation. February 20, 2008 - "The new Treaty poses the biggest threat to national sovereignty in Europe since the Second World War." 
con_2_3	Lisbon Treaty strips countries of the right to decide values	 Lisbon Treaty strips countries of the right to decide values The cost of centralization is mainly that uniform policies are imposed on heterogeneous populations. This means that policies developed in EU institutions are imposed on European countries and populations that may completely oppose those policies.
con_2_4	One can support EU and centralization, while objecting to Lisbon	 One can support EU and centralization, while objecting to Lisbon "An alternative guide to the Lisbon Treaty". Sinn Fein, Liberal Irish political party. - "You can support the EU and be against the Lisbon Treaty. You can support the EU and still want to see democracy and accountability. You can support the EU and still believe that our government should use their position positively and not go along with what suits the larger countries."
headline_3	Updates: Does Lisbon appropriately modernize past EU treaties?
pro_3_1	Lisbon Treaty uses language fitting for amending previous treaties	 Lisbon Treaty uses language fitting for amending previous treaties 
pro_3_2	Lisbon Treaty modernizes EU governance and democratic processes	 Lisbon Treaty modernizes EU governance and democratic processes "Treaty of Lisbon. Taking Europe into the 21st century". Europa.eu. - "Taking Europe into the 21st century. The Treaty signed by the Heads of State or Government of the 27 Member States in Lisbon on 13 December 2007 will provide the EU with modern institutions and optimised working methods to tackle both efficiently and effectively today's challenges in today's world. In a rapidly changing world, Europeans look to the EU to address issues such as globalisation, climatic and demographic changes, security and energy. The Treaty of Lisbon will reinforce democracy in the EU and its capacity to promote the interests of its citizens on a day-to-day basis."
pro_3_3	Lisbon treaty amends EU/EC treaties w/o replacing them	 Lisbon treaty amends EU/EC treaties w/o replacing them "Treaty of Lisbon. Taking Europe into the 21st century". Europa.eu. - "On 13 December 2007, EU leaders signed the Treaty of Lisbon, thus bringing to an end several years of negotiation about institutional issues[...]The Treaty of Lisbon amends the current EU and EC treaties, without replacing them."
pro_3_4	Lisbon Treaty recognizes right of states to withdraw from EU.	Lisbon Treaty recognizes right of states to withdraw from EU.
con_3_1	The Lisbon Treaty is too confusing and unclear	 The Lisbon Treaty is too confusing and unclear "Sunday Times: Lisbon treaty: yes, no or eh?". Kathy Foley. 13 Jan. 2008 - "Some hours later, I made it to page 25. I was hungry, tired, dispirited and suffering a thumping headache. You tend to get migraines when you read sentences like “The use of Union competences is governed by the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality” over and over again, without ever coming to understand what they mean."
headline_4	Democracy: will Lisbon improve the democratic practices of EU?
pro_4_1	The Lisbon Treaty generally makes the EU more democratic	 The Lisbon Treaty generally makes the EU more democratic "Treaty of Lisbon. Questions and Answers". Europea.eu - "Does the Treaty of Lisbon make the decision-making process more democratic? Yes. The Treaty of Lisbon will increase the number of policy areas where the directly elected European Parliament has to approve EU legislation together with the Council comprised of national Ministers (the “co-decision” procedure). The Treaty of Lisbon strengthens the democratic control of the European Union with a stronger role for both the European Parliament and national parliaments. It will establish a clearer distribution of powers between the Union and the Member States, which will make it easier for the citizens to understand 'who does what'."
pro_4_2	Lisbon Treaty gives citizens greater voice	 Lisbon Treaty gives citizens greater voice "Treaty of Lisbon. Taking Europe into the 21st century". Europa.eu. - A stronger voice for citizens: thanks to the Citizens' Initiative, one million citizens from a number of Member States will have the possibility to call on the Commission to bring forward new policy proposals.
pro_4_3	Lisbon Treaty responds to concerns raised by EU citizens	 Lisbon Treaty responds to concerns raised by EU citizens "Treaty of Lisbon. Questions and Answers". Europea.eu - "The Treaty of Lisbon responds to concerns raised by European citizens. For example, the political commitment to tackle the twin challenges of climate change and energy policy is fully reflected in the Treaty. For the first time, the treaties will contain a section on energy which assigns to Union policy in this sector the objectives of ensuring the proper functioning of the energy market, in particular energy supply and the promotion of energy efficiency and energy saving, and the development of new and renewable forms of energy."
pro_4_4	The Lisbon Treaty affirms the individual rights of EU citizens	 The Lisbon Treaty affirms the individual rights of EU citizens
pro_4_5	Lisbon Treaty improves transparency in the EU.	Lisbon Treaty improves transparency in the EU.
con_4_1	Most EU citizens have not been given a vote on Lisbon Treaty	 Most EU citizens have not been given a vote on Lisbon Treaty Sally McNamara. "The EU Reform Treaty: A Threat to the Transatlantic Alliance". Heritage Foundation. February 20, 2008 - "The notion that the people of Europe should not have a vote on a treaty with huge implications for the future of the continent demonstrates the utter contempt that the Brussels bureaucracy has for the average man or woman on the street. There is no doubt that if the treaty were put to a popular vote, the electorates of several countries would reject it. The whole "European Project" is fundamentally undemocratic, unaccountable, and opaque. If subjected to referenda across the EU, it would almost certainly be consigned to the dustbin of history."
con_4_2	Lisbon re-packaged EU Constitution without risk of referendums	 Lisbon re-packaged EU Constitution without "risk" of referendums "An alternative guide to the Lisbon Treaty". Sinn Fein, Liberal Irish political party. - "It is an open secret that the cosmetic changes made to the constitution were motivated by a desire to avoid referendums in member states. Giuliano Amato, former Italian Prime Minister and Vice-Chair of the Convention which drew up the EU Constitution observed that 'The good thing about not calling it a Constitution is that no one can ask for a referendum on it.'"
con_4_3	Lisbon Treaty can amend itself without approval by states	 Lisbon Treaty can "amend itself" without approval by states "An alternative guide to the Lisbon Treaty". Sinn Fein, Liberal Irish political party. - "It puts at risk our automatic right to a referendum on future changes to existing treaties."
con_4_4	Under Lisbon Treaty, European Commission is not elected by the people.	Under Lisbon Treaty, European Commission is not elected by the people. The European Commission is responsible for proposing new legislation, but its commissioners will not be elected by Europeans. This is an unrepresentative form of governance. 
con_4_5	Lisbon is a treaty of the EU's arrogant political elite	 Lisbon is a treaty of the EU's arrogant political elite "The worker's party of Ireland. Lisbon Treaty Referendum 2008 Analysis" - "The Lisbon treaty has been defeated by the Irish people. This is a notable victory for democracy not only in Ireland but right across the 27 countries which constitute the present EU. It shows once again the clear divide that exists between the views, hopes and aspirations of the peoples of the EU and the plans of the tiny military, business and bureaucratic elite who dominate the structures and decision-making processes within the EU."
headline_5	Efficiency: Will the Lisbon Treaty improve the efficiency of EU decision-making?
pro_5_1	Lisbon Treaty makes EU decision-making more efficient and effective	 Lisbon Treaty makes EU decision-making more efficient and effective "Treaty of Lisbon. The Treaty at a glance". Europa. - A more efficient Europe, with simplified working methods and voting rules, streamlined and modern institutions for a EU of 27 members and an improved ability to act in areas of major priority for today's Union.
pro_5_2	Qualified majority voting prevents obstruction by a small EU minority	 "Qualified majority voting" prevents obstruction by a small EU minority 
pro_5_3	Lisbon creates co-decision-making in European Parliament and Council.	Lisbon creates co-decision-making in European Parliament and Council.
pro_5_4	Lisbon Treaty clarifies functions between EU members	 Lisbon Treaty clarifies functions between EU members "Treaty of Lisbon. The Treaty at a glance". Europa. - "What does what: the relationship between the Member States and the European Union will become clearer with the categorisation of competences." 
pro_5_5	Lisbon Treaty will move EU beyond out-of-date Nice Treaty	Lisbon Treaty will move EU beyond out-of-date Nice Treaty.
con_5_1	The EU is streamlined and working well; no need for Lisbon.	The EU is streamlined and working well; no need for Lisbon. The EU is operating as well as it can, in the context of it being a union of sovereign nations with legitimate, independent interests. Any further "streamlining" risks stepping beyond these legitimate constraints.
con_5_2	Lisbon does more than streamline EU; introduces sweeping new powers	 Lisbon does more than streamline EU; introduces sweeping new powers "The case for a no vote". Lisbon Treaty Information Campaign - 5. The EU doesn’t need this reform 
headline_6	Foreign policy: Will the Lisbon Treaty improve the EU's foreign policy?
pro_6_1	Lisbon allows for the independent foreign policies of EU states	 Lisbon allows for the independent foreign policies of EU states "Treaty of Lisbon. Questions and Answers". Europea.eu - "Does the Treaty weaken Member States' ability to have an independent foreign policy?
pro_6_2	Lisbon will not create an EU army nor require military participation	 Lisbon will not create an EU army nor require military participation "Treaty of Lisbon. Questions and Answers". Europea.eu - "Will Europe’s voice in the world be stronger with the Treaty of Lisbon?
pro_6_3	The Lisbon Treaty will strengthen the EU's voice in the world	 The Lisbon Treaty will strengthen the EU's voice in the world
pro_6_4	Lisbon Treaty gives greater coherence to EU foreign affairs.	Lisbon Treaty gives greater coherence to EU foreign affairs. 
pro_6_5	Lisbon Treaty enables the EU to address today's global challenges	 Lisbon Treaty enables the EU to address today's global challenges "Lisbon Reform Treaty - good for women, good for Ireland and good for Europe." 19 Mar. 2008 - "Saying YES to Europe is recognising that some of the most critical challenges facing us are challenges which can only be addressed at a global level. Global warming, global migration and globalisation are just three of these challenges; each of which requires international cooperation to find workable solutions. Now is not the time for isolationism."
pro_6_6	Lisbon strengthens EU diplomatic representation on the global stage	 Lisbon strengthens EU diplomatic representation on the global stage
pro_6_7	The Lisbon Treaty creates a legal basis for EU humanitarian aid	 The Lisbon Treaty creates a legal basis for EU humanitarian aid  
con_6_1	The Lisbon Treaty threatens the neutrality of EU member states	 The Lisbon Treaty threatens the neutrality of EU member states Many European countries have neutral foreign policies, including Switzerland and Ireland. The Lisbon Treaty and further integration would place the in the position of having to go along with central EU foreign policies.
con_6_2	Lisbon Treaty threatens Anglo-American and transatlantic relations	 Lisbon Treaty threatens Anglo-American and transatlantic relations Sally McNamara. "The EU Reform Treaty: A Threat to the Transatlantic Alliance". Heritage Foundation. February 20, 2008 - "For both sides of the Atlantic, the Lisbon Treaty is bad news. The treaty poses a massive threat to the future of the Anglo-American Special Relationship as well as the broader transatlantic alliance. It will further entrench Europe's Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) and the European Security and Defense Policy (ESDP), both major threats to the future of NATO, and will seriously impair the ability of America's allies in Europe to stand alongside the United States where and when they choose to do so. [...] An America without Britain alongside it would be far more isolated and friendless and significantly less able to project power on the world stage. For Washington, there is no real alternative to the Special Relationship. Its collapse would be damaging to America's standing as a global power and would significantly weaken her leadership of the war against Islamist terrorism."
con_6_3	Lisbon Treaty nefariously aims to create an EU superstate	 Lisbon Treaty nefariously aims to create an EU superstate Sally McNamara. "The EU Reform Treaty: A Threat to the Transatlantic Alliance". Heritage Foundation. February 20, 2008 - "A Blueprint for a European Superstate
headline_7	Internal security: Will Lisbon improve EU internal security?
pro_7_1	Lisbon Treaty strengthens the EU's ability to secure Europe	 Lisbon Treaty strengthens the EU's ability to secure Europe "Treaty of Lisbon. The Treaty at a glance". Europa. - "Improving the life of Europeans: the Treaty of Lisbon improves the EU's ability to act in several policy areas of major priority for today's Union and its citizens. This is the case in particular for the policy areas of freedom, security and justice, such as combating terrorism or tackling crime. It also concerns to some extent other areas including energy policy, public health, civil protection, climate change, services of general interest, research, space, territorial cohesion, commercial policy, humanitarian aid, sport, tourism and administrative cooperation."
pro_7_2	The Lisbon Treaty explicitly helps the EU combat human trafficking	  The Lisbon Treaty explicitly helps the EU combat human trafficking 
headline_8	Permanent President of the European Council: Is this an important feature of Lisbon?
pro_8_1	European Council presidency is streamlined under Lisbon	 European Council presidency is streamlined under Lisbon "Treaty of Lisbon. The Treaty at a glance". Europa. - "A more stable and streamlined institutional framework: the Treaty of Lisbon creates the function of President of the European Council elected for two and a half years, introduces a direct link between the election of the Commission President and the results of the European elections, provides for new arrangements for the future composition of the European Parliament and for a smaller Commission, and includes clearer rules on enhanced cooperation and financial provisions."
headline_9	Commissioners: Is it sensible to reduce the number of commissioners?
pro_9_1	Lisbon reduces number of EU Commissioners to streamline Commission	 Lisbon reduces number of EU Commissioners to streamline Commission 
headline_10	Taxes: What would the Lisbon Treaty do to taxes?
pro_10_1	The Treaty of Lisbon upholds the social achievements of the EU	 The Treaty of Lisbon upholds the social achievements of the EU - "Treaty of Lisbon. Questions and Answers". Europea.eu - "Does the Treaty of Lisbon weaken the social achievements of the EU?
con_10_1	The Lisbon Treaty will result in taxation without representation.	The Lisbon Treaty will result in taxation without representation. 
con_10_2	Lisbon Treaty will increase taxes for many EU citizens	 Lisbon Treaty will increase taxes for many EU citizens "The Case for a no vote. You'll pay the price: taxes". Lisbon Treaty Information Campaign.
con_10_3	Lisbon Treaty increases taxes on countries relying on low ones	 Lisbon Treaty increases taxes on countries relying on low ones Lisbon Treaty Information Center. "Case for No Vote" - "The Lisbon Treaty would allow the EU to change our current low tax regime, with disastrous effects for Irish workers and multinational companies attracted here by our low tax rate."
headline_11	Immigration: Would Lisbon increase immigration and is this a good thing?
con_11_1	Lisbon Treaty would lead to immigrants taking jobs	 Lisbon Treaty would lead to immigrants taking jobs "The Case for a no vote. You'll Pay the Price. Wages and jobs". Lisbon Treaty Information Center. - "Our government should have looked for a special protocol to protect Irish workers from the effect of this judgement. Instead they have agreed to make matters even worse by handing full control over our immigration policy to the EU. We'll be forced to accept the common EU policy on immigration and asylum - even when immigrants are coming from countries outside the EU."
headline_12	Economics: Will the Lisbon Treaty be economically beneficial?
pro_12_1	Lisbon Treaty integration benefits economies of EU countries	 Lisbon Treaty integration benefits economies of EU countries "Lisbon Reform Treaty - good for women, good for Ireland and good for Europe." Labour party of Ireland. 19 Mar. 2008 - "Membership of the EU has been a resounding success for the Irish economy. It has allowed us to grow from being one of the poorest members upon joining in 1973 to now being one of its most well off. We have benefited to the tune of many billions of euro from European structural funds. By giving us access to a market of half a billion people for our exports, the future importance of the EU to our economy should not be underestimated, especially when media reports are focussing on the downturn in the US and the weakening dollar."
con_12_1	Lisbon Treaty limits national economic sovereignty	 Lisbon Treaty limits national economic sovereignty "The case for a no vote. Foreign investment in Ireland." Lisbon Treaty Information Campaign - "Lisbon may also be used to limit Ireland's right to encourage foreign direct investment - In other words to prevent us wooing foreign companies here with promises of state aid. Given that a significant number of Irish people are employed by such companies, giving this power to the EU is a dangerous step for Ireland. Our country should never have allowed our country to come under the control of the Common Commercial Policy under Lisbon. The truth is, unless Lisbon is defeated, we are in danger of losing control over our economy."
con_12_2	Lisbon Treaty prevents states from attracting companies with low taxes.	Lisbon Treaty prevents states from attracting companies with low taxes. Ireland is a good example of a state that protested the Lisbon Treaty on the basis that it would constrain its ability to use its low taxes to attract foreign companies to do business in Ireland. This is a concern in all states that use their lower taxes and other incentives to attract foreign companies. 
headline_13	Environment: Does Lisbon strengthen the EU on the environment?
pro_13_1	Lisbon better reinforces EU sustainable development	 Lisbon better reinforces EU sustainable development - "Treaty of Lisbon. Questions and Answers". Europea.eu - "Does the Treaty of Lisbon preserve what the EU has achieved for the environment? What about climate change? Yes, entirely. The Treaty of Lisbon states that one of the Union’s objectives is to work for the sustainable development of Europe based, in particular, on a high level of protection and improvement of the quality of the environment. Although the idea of sustainable development was included in the existing treaties, the Treaty of Lisbon will reinforce and better define this objective. Sustainable development is also affirmed as one of the fundamental objectives of the Union in its relations with the wider world."
con_13_1	The Lisbon Treaty pays too little attention to climate change	 The Lisbon Treaty pays too little attention to climate change "An alternative guide to the Lisbon Treaty". Sinn Fein, Liberal Irish political party. - "Climate Change The Irish government has made great play of its “success” in having climate change introduced into the Treaty. However, this “addition” amounts to a mere 6 words that do not empower the EU to do anything it could not currently do under existing Treaty provisions. The relevant article states, “promoting measures at international level to deal with regional or worldwide environmental problems, and in particular combating climate change.” Indeed the current EU Climate Change package is based on the existing provisions. Considering the urgency of the climate change crisis, the fact the Irish government could only secure these six words, and nothing additional to the existing provisions, is an indication of the lack of seriousness in regard to this issue."
headline_14	Smaller states: Will Lisbon benefit or hurt small countries?
con_14_1	Lisbon Treaty will reduce power of small countries	 Lisbon Treaty will reduce power of small countries "The Case for a No Vote". Lisbon Treaty Information Campaign - "Already two-thirds of our laws are made in Brussels. But Lisbon transfers more power from you – the Irish voter – to the EU. We lose our EU Commissioner and removes decision -making from the Dáil in 32 areas, giving you less power [...] If the Lisbon Treaty is passed our voting weight in the EU Council of Ministers will be slashed by 60%. Germany’s power and influence, on the other hand, will increase by 100%. Lisbon means our voice is weaker in the EU and we lose the power to be heard [...] Lisbon is a power-grab by the big EU states, whose larger populations would give them the biggest say in deciding EU laws. It’s a bad deal for Ireland."
headline_15	Alternatives: Are there any alternatives to the Lisbon Treaty?
pro_15_1	No good alternatives to the Lisbon Treaty	 No good alternatives to the Lisbon Treaty Andrew Duff. "Why Ireland must say ‘Yes' to Lisbon". Financial Times. 12 May 2008 - "The second big falsehood is that if Ireland says No, there will be something better on offer. There won't. The Treaty of Lisbon is the best we can do. It is not perfect, and, like the camel, not pretty. Someday it too will need to be revised. But Lisbon is today's consensus. There is no agreement to do anything else - certainly not to embrace the neo-communist agenda of Sinn Féin. This time, there really is no Plan B."
headline_16	Tactics: Are the tactics used by the various camps appropriate?
pro_16_1	Opponents of the Lisbon Treaty often spread misinformation	 Opponents of the Lisbon Treaty often spread misinformation Andrew Duff. "Why Ireland must say ‘Yes' to Lisbon". Financial Times. 12 May 2008 - "Others, wilfully or not, misread the Lisbon treaty. Left-wingers claim that Lisbon will impose nuclear energy on Ireland. Business people spread alarm about how the EU, under Lisbon, will force Ireland to raise its corporation tax. Nationalists insist that Ireland's post-colonial ‘neutrality' will be impossible to sustain under Lisbon. And right-wing Christians claim that the Charter will authorise abortion in Ireland. (Where is the Pope when you need him?)"
