title	Cluster bomb ban
question	Is an international ban on cluster bombs justified? Was the US wrong to reject it?
headline_1	Human rights: Do cluster munition pose unacceptable harm to civilians?
pro_1_1	Cluster bombs simply kill too many civilians	 Cluster bombs simply kill too many civilians According to Handicap International, the NGO, 80 percent - 85 percent of the victims of cluster bombs are civilians and 23 percent are children.[1]
pro_1_2	Cluster bombs inherently inaccurate, kill indiscriminate	 Cluster bombs inherently inaccurate, kill indiscriminate Kathleen Peratis. "Back Bill To Ban Cluster Bombs". The Jewish Daily Forward. 23 Mar 2007 - "cluster bombs, like landmines, kill indiscriminately, and therefore they should be banned. This is how they work: A single cluster bomb spews dozens or hundreds of smaller sub-munitions, called bomblets, over a wide 'footprint.' The bomblets are designed to explode on impact and to destroy broad targets, such as massed armor and infantry formations." Because of the weapon's broad area of effect, they have often been documented as striking both civilian and military objects in the target area. This characteristic of the weapon is particularly problematic for civilians when cluster munitions are used in or near populated areas and has been documented by research reports from groups such as Human Rights Watch.[2] Further compounding this problem is that, according to Handicap International, only 15 percent of the bombs reach their objectives.[3]
pro_1_3	Cluster bomb duds become de facto mines, threatening civilizations	 Cluster bomb "duds" become de facto mines, threatening civilizations "Britain supports call for ban on cluster bombs". Guardian. 24 Feb. 2007 - "Up to 60% of the victims in southeast Asia are children. The weapons have recently been used in Iraq, Kosovo, Afghanistan and Lebanon. The UN estimates that Israel dropped 4m in south Lebanon during last summer's war with Hizbullah, with as many 40% failing to explode on impact." These unexploded "duds" act as de facto mines that can terrorize communities for decades.
pro_1_4	Cluster bombs' bright colors attractive to children	 Cluster bombs' bright colors attractive to children Jeffrey Benner. "The Case Against Cluster Bombs". Mother Jones. May 28, 1999 - "For every cluster bomb dropped, a small percentage of the 202 bomblets released are duds. Bright yellow with red stripes and a little plastic parachute hood, these soda-can-sized death sticks have proven particularly attractive to curious children. Many are blown to bits and killed in the encounter, while others survive despite the loss of limbs."
pro_1_5	Dud rates in cluster bombs are far too high.	Dud rates in cluster bombs are far too high. Cluster bombs are a threat in so far as the little bomblets become defacto landmines when they fail to explode on impact. Instead, they sit in waiting for a civilian or soldier to step on them or pick them up, whereupon they explode.
pro_1_6	Demeaning cluster bombs is dangerous, costs lives	 Demeaning cluster bombs is dangerous, costs lives The Boston Globe reported, "One of the first casualties of the war on terrorism was the killing of four United Nations demining workers in early October and the total disruption of demining work. 'We have lost 30 workers in the last decade on minefields, but this is the first time we have lost people in the office,' said Syed Ahmad Farid Elmi, acting director of the demining team. More than 1,000 demining workers were put on "mandatory unpaid leave once it appeared that the United States might retaliate in Afghanistan."[4]
con_1_1	Cluster bombs are usually used in uninhabited areas	Cluster bombs are usually used in uninhabited areas. "Based on the evidence gathered by the Investigating Officer, it was clear that (the) majority of the cluster munitions were fired at open and uninhabited areas, areas from which Hezbollah forces operated and in which no civilians were present."- Brig. Gen. Avihai 
con_1_2	Cluster bombs used for targeted military targets	 Cluster bombs used for targeted military targets Oliver Kamm, a british writer and newspaper columnist. "Cluster bombs: don't ban them". Times Online. May 29, 2008 - "The diplomatic efforts to ban cluster munitions, moreover, have costs. These weapons are not indiscriminate, and they do have a place in warfare. They are effective against moving or dispersed targets such as tank formations and airfields."
con_1_3	Cluster bombs are humane in their capacity to prevent war	 Cluster bombs are humane in their capacity to prevent war "Cluster bombs: don't ban them". Times Online. May 29, 2008 - "The case for a “new benchmark” is a fallacy that will undermine collective security. The treaty's greatest impact will be not in protecting civilians but in hampering the military capability of the states that are most scrupulous in limiting the destructiveness of warfare."
con_1_4	Substitutes for cluster bombs in combat have similar costs	 Substitutes for cluster bombs in combat have similar costs Oliver Kamm. "Cluster bombs: don't ban them". Times Online. May 29, 2008. - "If they are not used against such targets, then something else will be: probably rocket barrages or massed artillery. These have a humanitarian impact too - in civilian lives and in destroying infrastructure - and there will be more of them."
headline_2	Military value: Do cluster bombs have little or significant military value?
pro_2_1	Banning class of weapons never undermines state security	 Banning class of weapons never undermines state security Archbishop Silvano Tomasi, the Holy See's permanent observer to the U.N. offices in Geneva, said in May 2008, "experience shows us how the prohibition of certain categories of arms in a good faith negotiation with international organizations has never placed states' national security in danger."[5]
pro_2_2	Over-armament with cluster bombs is threat to peace	 Over-armament with cluster bombs is threat to peace Archbishop Silvano Tomasi, the Holy See's permanent observer to the U.N. offices in Geneva, "The true danger is owed more to 'over-armament' and the fact of trusting only in arms for assuring national and international security."[6]
pro_2_3	Cluster bombs kill soldiers of militaries deploying them	 Cluster bombs kill soldiers of militaries deploying them Dick Devlin. "Ban these bombs that kill indiscriminately". 12 July 2008] - "when U.S. soldiers stumbled upon tens of thousands of dud U.S. submunitions in the deserts of Saudi Arabia and Iraq during Operation Desert Storm (Iraq, 1991), they did not know what the litter was. As a result of their curiosity, this type of U.S. weaponry killed and injured more American troops than any Iraqi weapon system during that war."
pro_2_4	Signing cluster bomb ban enhances international trust	 Signing cluster bomb ban enhances international trust Archbishop Silvano Tomasi, the Holy See's permanent observer to the U.N. offices in Geneva, said in May 2008, "Development, reciprocal trust, prevention, and creating conditions for a dignified life are parameters without which security or stability are impossible."[7]
pro_2_5	US strong-arms nations by saying cluster bomb ban undermines alliances	 US strong-arms nations by saying cluster bomb ban undermines alliances That the United States is claiming that a cluster bomb ban treaty will undermine its ability to work with other nations in peace keepign and other operations is a sad and unfortunate threat and strong-arming tactic. The purpose is not to explain reality, but to threaten allies that dare to sign any ban with the prospect of losing the support of the United States in important strategic or humanitarian missions.
con_2_1	Cluster bombs have a substantial military value in wars	 Cluster bombs have a substantial military value in wars "U.S. Cluster Munitions Policy". Briefing by Stephen D. Mull, Acting Assistant Secretary for Political-Military Affairs. 21 May 2008 - "We think that it is going to be impossible to ban cluster munitions, as many in the Oslo process would like to do, because these are weapons that have a certain military utility and are of use. The United States relies on them as an important part of our own defense strategy. Many of our allies rely on them as well."
con_2_2	Cluster bomb ban does not balance military and humanitarian needs	 Cluster bomb ban does not balance military and humanitarian needs Foreign Ministry spokesman Aryeh Mekel said in early 2008, "We don't think such an absolute ban is justified, and a balance between military needs and taking into account humanitarian considerations needs to be found."
con_2_3	A cluster bomb ban will undermine military alliances	 A cluster bomb ban will undermine military alliances Oliver Kamm. "Cluster bombs: don't ban them". Times Online. May 29, 2008. - "The most enduring costs of an extensive treaty, however, will be to the solidarity of Nato. The United States insists on the option of using cluster munitions. The US is not merely one state among many. In the absence of world government, it is the provider and guarantor of collective security. Under the terms of the treaty, military personnel might face criminal prosecution if they operated alongside US forces."
headline_3	Improving cluster bombs: Is improving cluster bombs an inadequate solution?
pro_3_1	Even with better cluster bombs, old ones will still be used.	Even with better cluster bombs, old ones will still be used. When new weapons are developed in the world, it is false to believe that they will be used immediately. Instead, older stockpiles are used, before they become too outdated. Therefore, improving cluster bombs will not necessarily prevent the use of the existing stockpiles of cluster bombs, which are malfunctioning and killing civilians as a result.  
con_3_1	Improving cluster bomb detonation rates is the solution, not a ban	 Improving cluster bomb detonation rates is the solution, not a ban "DoD Wants Less Deadly Cluster Bomby". Associated Press. 8 July, 2008 - "Faced with growing international pressure, the Pentagon is changing its policy on cluster bombs and plans to reduce the danger of unexploded munitions in the deadly explosives.
headline_4	Feasibility: Is a ban on cluster bombs feasible?
pro_4_1	International will for ban demonstrates success is possible	 International will for ban demonstrates success is possible Thomas Nash, international coordinator for the Cluster Munition Coalition, a network of about 200 organizations promoting the ban. - "From our perspective, this is quite an amazing result. Only a year and a half ago, countries would have said you were mad to think the world could turn around and ban cluster munitions with an international treaty, but what we’ve achieved here in Dublin is exactly that."[8]
con_4_1	Importance of cluster bombs against threats makes a ban infeasible	 Importance of cluster bombs against threats makes a ban infeasible "U.S. Cluster Munitions Policy". Briefing by Stephen D. Mull, Acting Assistant Secretary for Political-Military Affairs. 21 May 2008 - "We think that it is going to be impossible to ban cluster munitions, as many in the Oslo process would like to do, because these are weapons that have a certain military utility and are of use." 
con_4_2	A cluster bomb ban is worthless with so many non-signatories	 A cluster bomb ban is worthless with so many non-signatories "U.S. Cluster Munitions Policy". Briefing by Stephen D. Mull, Acting Assistant Secretary for Political-Military Affairs. 21 May 2008 - "Now, we understand very well the motives behind those participating in the Oslo process. We respect their interests in humanitarian concerns. But we have an essential tactical disagreement that unless you get all the major producers and users of these weapons to agree on how they're going to regulate them, the - you're not going to meet your goal of addressing the humanitarian impact of them."
headline_5	International law: Are cluster bombs consistent with international law?
pro_5_1	Dud cluster bombs effectively illegal landmines	 Dud cluster bombs effectively illegal landmines Jeffrey Benner. "The Case Against Cluster Bombs". Mother Jones. May 28, 1999 - "Such incidents of indiscriminate killing have led groups like Human Rights Watch to argue that “dud” cluster bomblets are, in effect, land mines, and should therefore be banned under the 1997 Anti-Personnel Landmines Treaty."
con_5_1	1997 Anti-Personnel Landmines Treaty should not be interpreted to include cluster bombs	 1997 Anti-Personnel Landmines Treaty should not be interpreted to include cluster bombs Jeffrey Benner. "The Case Against Cluster Bombs". Mother Jones. May 28, 1999 - At a 1997 Pentagon briefing regarding the land mine ban, the Pentagon said that while it supports the land-mine ban, it would like to see the word “primarily” inserted at the beginning of the definition. They believe this would insure that cluster bombs would be exempted from the ban, since they are not “primarily designed” to function as land mines. If “primarily” were not included, one Pentagon briefer explained, “that could knock out a number of systems that we really do need -- some of our runway and island munitions and that sort of thing, and that's what we're concerned about. We want to be sure that if we're talking about a land mine ban we're talking about land mines.” 
headline_6	Join operations: Is a ban flexible to signatories and non-signatories?
con_6_1	A cluster bomb ban would jeopardize joint peacekeeping operations	 A cluster bomb ban would jeopardize joint peacekeeping operations. Stephen Mull, acting U.S. assistant secretary of state for political-military affairs told reporters in May of 2008 the proposed ban being discussed could 'criminalize' joint military operations between countries that signed the ban and those that did not. "we are concerned that measures adopted by the Oslo process could very much endanger our ability to operate and to cooperate with other militaries and other governments around the world. For example, the current draft of the Oslo process convention under consideration would effectively criminalize cooperation of countries who sign the convention, the Oslo process convention, criminalize their cooperation with militaries who do not sign them, who do not - with governments who do not sign the convention and who still use cluster munitions. And this would have very grave implications for a whole range of activities that we don't think are within the goals of the organizers of this process."[9]
headline_7	US-specific: What are the US-specific arguments?
pro_7_1	Rejection of cluster bomb ban damages US image	 Rejection of cluster bomb ban damages US image Marc Garlasco, senior military analyst for Human Rights Watch said in May 2008, "This has completely and totally isolated the U.S., and represents a real failure of U.S. foreign policy. Britain has stood up to the U.S."[10]
pro_7_2	The United States does not help current demining work.	The United States does not help current demining work. Times reported that the United States is contributing only $7 million for current demining efforts. More importantly,the United States has not provided a list of areas where it dropped cluster bombs. [11]
con_7_1	US cluster bombs are justified by US clean-up actions	 US cluster bombs are justified by US "clean-up" actions "U.S. Cluster Munitions Policy". Briefing by Stephen D. Mull, Acting Assistant Secretary for Political-Military Affairs. 21 May 2008 - "And the United States is proud of the role that we've played in cleaning up battlefields around the world. Since 1993, we have spent more than $1.2 billion on cleaning up war zones and former conflict zones to make sure that they're safe for civilians to go back and reinhabit. And no other country in the world comes close to that. And it also exceeds - we do this not just where the United States is involved, but in conflict zones around the world where the United States is not a party to the conflict."
con_7_2	Cluster bomb ban will put US soldiers at risk	 Cluster bomb ban will put US soldiers at risk State Department spokesman Tom Casey said in May 2008 that joining the ban would put U.S. soldiers' lives at risk. This is a result of the fact that they have a demonstrated military value. Casey said, "While the United States shares the humanitarian concerns of those in Dublin, cluster munitions have demonstrated military utility."[12]
con_7_3	Technological advances will ensure that future cluster bombs reliably explode or quickly disable themselves.	Technological advances will ensure that future cluster bombs reliably explode or quickly disable themselves.[13]
con_7_4	The ban on May 28 will not succeed unless you get the major world powers at the table.	The ban on May 28 will not succeed unless you get the major world powers at the table. The United States argues that the Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons is a more appropriate forum in which to talk about cluster munitions with major world powers at the table, Mull said. [14]
