title	Democratic peace theory
question	Is the democratic peace theory correct?
headline_1	Theory: Is democracy instrumental to peace or do geopolitics play a larger role?
pro_1_1	Power kills; absolute power kills absolutely	 Power kills; absolute power kills absolutely "Freedom, Democracy, Peace; Power, Democide, and War". Hawaii.edu - "It is true that democratic freedom is an engine of national and individual wealth and prosperity. Hardly known, however, is that freedom also saves millions of lives from famine, disease, war, collective violence, and democide (genocide and mass murder). That is, the more freedom, the greater the human security and the less the violence. Conversely, the more power governments have, the more human insecurity and violence. In short: to our realization that power impoverishes we must also add that power kills."
pro_1_2	Democracy promotes harmonious and cooperative inter-state relations	 Democracy promotes harmonious and cooperative inter-state relations Martin Wolf, Why Globalization Works?. Yale University Press. 2004. ISBN 0-300-10777-3. pp 33.- Liberal democracy does not only have domestic virtues. It is also the only system of governance for which harmonious and co-operative inter-state relations are a natural outcome. This important proposition was put forward by the German philosopher Immanuel Kant in his tract Perpetual Peace. Liberal democracies may fight with other states, but have no reason to fight with one another. When Norman Angell, the British liberal, wrote in his subsequently derided masterpiece, the Gran Illusion, published in 1909, that a war among the great powers could only prove mutually ruinous, he was correct...Liberal democracy is conducive to harmonious international relations because the prosperity of a nation derives not from the size of the territory or population under its direct control, but from the combination of internal economic development with international exchange. The insight is the heart of Adam Smith's Wealth of Nations. It was not just a point about economics, but an equally original and important point about international relations. Mercantilism - the view that the aim of trade is the accumulation of treasure - was worse than bad economics. It was also lethal politics, because it led to conflict where conflict was unjustified."
pro_1_3	Democracies share democratic values that help maintain peace	 Democracies share democratic values that help maintain peace James Baker III - "We believed that the defeat of communism and the rise of the democrats created an unprecedented opportunity. We hoped to build our relations with Russia, Ukraine, and the other new independent states on the basis of democracy and free markets: what we came to call a "democratic peace," the type of peace we enjoyed with Germany and Japan. This peace would be based on shared democratic values, not just converging interests. While the democratic impulse in Russia and in most of the new independent states of the Commonwealth was genuine, these nations had little in the way of democratic traditions, and we were far from certain that democracy would take root. But we did not want to create a self-fulfilling prophecy by pursuing a pure balance-of-power policy that assumed from the outset that these states would eventually return to authoritarianism."[1]
pro_1_4	Democracy drives economic growth and integration, reducing violence.	Democracy drives economic growth and integration, reducing violence.
pro_1_5	Democracy increases information flows, which reduces violence.	Democracy increases information flows, which reduces violence.
con_1_1	Democracies are peaceful only when their interests coincide	 Democracies are peaceful only when their interests coincide Sebastian Rosato. "The Flawed Logic of Democratic Peace Theory". The American Political Science Review. Vol. 97, No. 4 (Nov., 2003) - Democracies...do not trust or respect one another when their interests clash."
con_1_2	Peace by force is actually what allows peace between democracies	 Peace by force is actually what allows peace between democracies "There is no way to peace; peace is the way." - A. J. Muste.[2]
con_1_3	Powerful democracies are frequently aggressive and violent	 Powerful democracies are frequently aggressive and violent Imagine you are visiting an aquarium that features a large shark tank. There are 100 sharks in the tank. Ninety-five of the sharks are either docile or too small to injure a human. There are, however, five hungry great whites. Certainly, the overwhelming majority of the sharks are harmless, but would you swim in that tank? Similarly, we should not ask, are democracies peaceful?, but is the United States peaceful? Are the other militarily powerful democracies – United Kingdom, France, India, Israel, peaceful? History shows they are not. See, Figure No. 6. As Gowa writes, "Theory suggests and empirical studies confirm that major powers are much more likely than are other states to become involved in armed disputes, including war."
con_1_4	Democracies are quick to mobilize forces	 Democracies are quick to mobilize forces Sebastian Rosato. "The Flawed Logic of Democratic Peace Theory". The American Political Science Review. Vol. 97, No. 4 (Nov., 2003) - "Open political competition does guarantee that a democracy will reveal private information about its level of resolve thereby avoiding conflict."
headline_2	Voters: Are voters more peaceful?
pro_2_1	Sacrificing citizens of a republic demand peace from representatives	 Sacrificing citizens of a republic demand peace from representatives
pro_2_2	Citizens that choose their leaders are more peaceful.	Citizens that choose their leaders are more peaceful. Talbott's version, "Countries whose citizens choose their leaders . . . are more likely than those with other forms of government to be reliable partners in trade and diplomacy, and less likely to threaten the peace."
con_2_1	The act of voting itself does not pacify people	 The act of voting itself does not pacify people James Bovard. "The Democratic-Peace Fraud". The Future of Freedom Foundation. 23 May 2008 - "The notion that democracy will end all mass killings implies that there is some nobility latent within the masses that merely requires a change in the process of selecting a nation’s rulers to blossom. That would hold true if the only reason people sought blood was that they had not picked their own chiefs. The history of mobs does not indicate that popular selection of leaders ensures nonviolence."
con_2_2	Democratic populations are not more aware of the costs of war	 Democratic populations are not more aware of the costs of war
headline_3	Processes: Are democratic decision-making processes more likely to produce peace?
pro_3_1	Democracies better resolve disagreement without resorting to violence	 Democracies better resolve disagreement without resorting to violence Rudolph Rummel describes democracy as "a way of solving without violence disagreement over fundamental questions."[3]
pro_3_2	The desire to get re-elected constrains war-making	 The desire to get re-elected constrains war-making Immanuel Kant. "Perpetual Peace.". 1795 - "But there is another important theoretical thrust regarding the impact of regime type that relies less on the idea that democracy evokes normative commitments to the peaceful resolution of conflicts, and more on the idea that "leaders in democracies might avoid wars against other democratic states...because they feel that fighting such wars might be harmful to their chances of staying in power" (Ray 1995, p. 40). Bueno de Mesquita et al (1992), Bueno de Mesquita & Siverson (1995) find that interstate wars do have important impacts on the fate of political regimes, and that the probability that a political leader will fall from power in the wake of a lost war is particularly high in democratic states."
con_3_1	Democracies do not externalize their conflict resolution processes	 Democracies do not externalize their conflict resolution processes Sebastian Rosato. "The Flawed Logic of Democratic Peace Theory". The American Political Science Review. Vol. 97, No. 4 (Nov., 2003) - "Democratic peace theory is probably the most powerful liberal contribution to the debate on the causes of war and peace. In this paper I examine the causal logics that underpin the theory to determine whether they offer compelling explanations for the finding of mutual democratic pacifism. I find that they do not. Democracies do not reliably externalize their domestic norms of conflict resolution."
con_3_2	There are few checks on the foreign policies of elected executives	 There are few checks on the foreign policies of elected executives Elected leaders are not particularly accountable to peace loving publics or pacifist interest groups
headline_4	Pretext for war: Is the democratic peace used as a pretext for war?
con_4_1	Spreading democracy and peace is used as a pretext for war	 Spreading democracy and "peace" is used as a pretext for war George W. Bush, in his 2005 State of the Union address, declared, "Because democracies respect their own people and their neighbors, the advance of freedom will lead to peace."[4]
con_4_2	Western powers exploits democratic peace to maintain dominance	 Western powers exploits "democratic peace" to maintain dominance
headline_5	Majority: Does majority rule help or jeopardize peace?
con_5_1	Majority rule in democracies does not promote peace	 Majority rule in democracies does not promote peace
headline_6	Ethnic division: Does democracy help constrain or amplify ethnic divisions?
pro_6_1	Diversity in democracies counters group-think, risk of war	 Diversity in democracies counters group-think, risk of war
con_6_1	Ethnic voting in Democracies often stokes ethnic violence	 Ethnic voting in Democracies often stokes ethnic violence Ethnic groups often vote in specific patterns. In this way, voting can highlight and foment divisions between ethnic groups, leading to violence, civil war, genocide, or even regional war.
headline_7	Non-democracies: Do democracies fight non-democracies, and is this OK?
pro_7_1	Democracies mostly only engage in defensive wars with non-democracies.	Democracies mostly only engage in defensive wars with non-democracies.
pro_7_2	Anti-Westernism is a driving philosophy in opposing Democratic Peace	 Anti-Westernism is a driving philosophy in opposing Democratic Peace R.J. Rummel. "The Democratic Peace: A new IDEA". - "anti-Westernism (or anti-Americanism) have caused many intellectuals to reject fundamental Western values, including the faith in classical democratic freedoms; and with this has also gone a rejection of any evidence that these freedoms could promote peace."
con_7_1	Democracies attack non-democracies, undermining pacifism myth	 Democracies attack non-democracies, undermining pacifism myth James Bovard. "The Democratic-Peace Fraud". The Future of Freedom Foundation. 23 May 2008 - "Other democracies also lack pacifist resumes. Britain, which was a constitutional republic that became increasingly democratic as the 20th century wore on, attacked many nations to expand or defend its empire. Since the government of Israel was established in 1947/48, it has attacked Egypt (1956), Egypt and Syria (1967), and Lebanon (1982–2006), as well as engaging in more than 35 years of armed struggle against the Palestinians living in the occupied territories seized by Israel in the 1967 war. It also engaged in a defensive war in 1973 against Egypt and Syria.
con_7_2	Democracies often support violent, repressive dictatorships	 Democracies often support violent, repressive dictatorships
headline_8	Democracy: What are the arguments regarding the definition of democracy?
pro_8_1	Democratic peace applies to liberal democracies, which do not war.	Democratic peace applies to liberal democracies, which do not war. While some illiberal democracies have engaged in war against each other, no liberal democracies have done so. Therefore, if we include only liberal democracies in the Democratic Peace theory, it holds.
headline_9	Should countries try to follow the Democratic peace theory?
pro_9_1	Democracies are founded on similar principles so they should not go to war.	Democracies are founded on similar principles so they should not go to war. All democracies are founded on the same principle, and government's should focus on combating dictatorship before attacking democracies.
con_9_1	Democratic peace theory is insignificant	 Democratic peace theory is insignificant David E. Spiro. "The Insignificance of the Liberal Peace". International Security, Vol. 19, No. 2 (Autumn, 1994)
headline_10	Did the 2006 Lebanon War follow the democratic peace theory?
pro_10_1	Lebanon is not a liberal democracy according to Freedom House in its 2006 report	Lebanon is not a liberal democracy according to Freedom House in its 2006 report (for the year 2005). The last available Polity ranking for the year 2003 states "Foreign occupation". Syria controlled much of the politics in Lebanon until the Cedar Revolution in 2005 and regime after that is less than 3 years old. The Lebanese general election, 2005 after the Cedar Revolution has been described as "free but not fair" by the newspaper Washington Post. The different religious groups are allocated parliamentary seats not proportionate to the number of voters. The whole public sector is similarly divided. Everyone from the President and the Speaker of Parliament down to police and college professors are chosen according to the individual's faith.
pro_10_2	Israel battled the organization Hezbollah, which exerted control over the southern part of Lebanon, and not the Lebanese army.	Israel battled the organization Hezbollah, which exerted control over the southern part of Lebanon, and not the Lebanese army. The UN notes that "a group engaged in the democratic political process of opinion formation and decision-making cannot simultaneously possess an autonomous armed operational capacity outside the authority of the State. More broadly, the existence of armed groups defying the control of the legitimate Government, which by definition is vested with a monopoly on the use of force throughout its territory, is incompatible with the restoration and full respect of the sovereignty, territorial integrity, unity and political independence of the country."
headline_11	Did the Cenepa War follow the democratic peace theory?
pro_11_1	Alberto Fujimori had made an auto-coup in 1992 and took on dictatorial powers.	Alberto Fujimori had made an auto-coup in 1992 and took on dictatorial powers. This means that the war followed the democratic peace theory?
con_11_1	Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori and the Ecuadorian President were democratically elected.	Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori and the Ecuadorian President were democratically elected. This means that two democracies were at war, showing an exception to the democratic peace theory.
headline_12	Did the Eritrean-Ethiopian War follow the democratic peace theory?
pro_12_1	There were no elections in Eritrea before the war.	There were no elections in Eritrea before the war. Authoritarian regime not respecting civil and political liberties. Poorly functioning democracy in Ethiopia.
con_12_1	Both countries were technically democracies	Both countries were technically democracies. As two democracies were at war, this is an exception to the democratic peace theory.
headline_13	Did the Yugoslav wars follow the democratic peace theory?
pro_13_1	Yugoslavia was not a true democracy	Yugoslavia was not a true democracy. List of possible exceptions to the democratic peace theory - Wikipedia "Yugoslavia did not fulfill the criteria for a liberal democracy. Frequent and arbitrary changes of election laws and districts occurred, even retroactively after elections. Press freedom greatly restricted. Slobodan Milosevic's regime controlled the state television and radio broadcasts. Electoral manipulation including: massive double voting, "voting" of persons being permanently absent or deceased, the pressure on employees by the management of ";socially owned companies", organized planting of already prepared voting ballots into the polling boxes, forging of electoral records and election board records, alteration of the election results made by electoral commissions, the large-scale annulment of the election results by courts rulings, and changing the number of participating voters in order to fulfill the legal requirements for the validity of the elections."
con_13_1	Slobodan Milosevic, the leader of Serbia, won several elections.	Slobodan Milosevic, the leader of Serbia, won several elections. List of possible exceptions to the democratic peace theory - Wikipedia "Slobodan Milosevic, the leader of Serbia, won several elections. The NATO nations participating in Operation Allied Force were democratic. At time of Kosovo War, Milosevic's party was in a coalition with two others, and the Serbian Parliament contained a broader range of political parties than is common in nations such as America, Britain and Japan. The government had invited the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe into Serbia to judge on 1996 election fraud, and had accepted its rulings even though they went against Milosevic's party.Milosevic had made election of Yugoslav president into a ballot by the whole electorate rather than just by the legislature."
con_13_2	The country's restrictions on extremists were not preventing democracy	The country's restrictions on extremists were not preventing democracy List of possible exceptions to the democratic peace theory - Wikipedia "As the opposition to Milosevic in Serbia in this period was often composed of extreme nationalists (such as the Serbian Renewal Movement that organized the March 9, 1991 protest, the Serbian Radical Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia), it is hard to decide what restrictions on the opposition were legitimate. Many human rights groups, including Amnesty International, believe that neo-fascist groups should have special restrictions on their activity. The fact that the vast majority of convictions under the Law on Information were for the opposition may not necessarily demonstrate undemocratic exercise of power."
headline_14	Motions:
