title	Bombing Hiroshima and Nagasaki
question	Was the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki justified?
headline_1	Ethics: Is it morally right to use atomic bombs?
pro_1_1	Bombing Japan was the lesser evil among the alternatives	 Bombing Japan was the lesser evil among the alternatives Victor Davis Hanson. "Considering Hiroshima." National Review. August 05, 2005 - "The truth, as we are reminded so often in this present conflict, is that usually in war there are no good alternatives, and leaders must select between a very bad and even worse choice. Hiroshima was the most awful option imaginable, but the other scenarios would have probably turned out even worse."
pro_1_2	Atomic bombs were a just response to Japan's total war tactics	 Atomic bombs were a just response to Japan's total war tactics Supporters of the bombings have argued that the Japanese government waged total war, ordering many civilians (including women and children) to work in factories and military offices and to fight against any invading force. Father John A. Siemes, professor of modern philosophy at Tokyo's Catholic University, and an eyewitness to the atomic bomb attack on Hiroshima wrote: "We have discussed among ourselves the ethics of the use of the bomb. Some consider it in the same category as poison gas and were against its use on a civil population. Others were of the view that in total war, as carried on in Japan, there was no difference between civilians and soldiers, and that the bomb itself was an effective force tending to end the bloodshed, warning Japan to surrender and thus to avoid total destruction. It seems logical to me that he who supports total war in boobs principle cannot complain of war against civilians."[1]
pro_1_3	Bombing Japan was ethical in context of the horrors of WWII	 Bombing Japan was ethical in context of the horrors of WWII WWII was the worst war the world has ever seen. By the end of this war, there was hardly any boundary between right and wrong anymore. War had become, on all sides, total war. It is for this reason that there was very little revulsion to the bombing of Japan at the time of the action. In the whole context of the bloodiest war in world history, bombing Japan was not that bad.
con_1_1	Bombing Japan was barbaric and immoral	 Bombing Japan was barbaric and immoral On August 8, 1955, Albert Camus addressed the bombing of Hiroshima in an editorial in the French newspaper Combat: "Mechanized civilization has just reached the ultimate stage of barbarism. In a near future, we will have to choose between mass suicide and intelligent use of scientific conquests[...] This can no longer be simply a god; it must become an order which goes upward from the peoples to the governments, an order to make a definitive choice between hell and reason." 
con_1_2	Bombing Japan was a war crime against humanity	 Bombing Japan was a war crime against humanity Peter Kuznick, director of the Nuclear Studies Institute at American University in Washington DC - "[Truman] knew he was beginning the process of annihilation of the species. It was not just a war crime; it was a crime against humanity."[2]
con_1_3	Bombing Japan was to take revenge on the civilians.	Bombing Japan was to take revenge on the civilians. America was scared of and angry with the Japanese military and resorted to cheating by hurting the innocent civillians, forcing the emperor to surrender. America was also impatient and did this immoral act without thinking.
con_1_4	Sources Say President Trumen Was Drunk When the Decision was made	Sources Say President Trumen Was Drunk When the Decision was made
headline_2	Death toll: Did bombings reduce the death toll of WWII?
pro_2_1	Invading Japan would have resulted in casualties far beyond bombs	Invading Japan would have resulted in casualties far beyond bombs The Americans anticipated losing many soldiers in the planned invasion of Japan, although the actual number of expected fatalities and wounded is subject to some debate. Truman after the war stated that he had been advised that American casualties could range from 250,000 to one million men.[3] Millions of Japanese military and civilian casualties were expected.[4] Millions of women, old men, and boys and girls had been trained to resist by such means as attacking with bamboo spears and strapping explosives to their bodies and throwing themselves under advancing tanks.[5] The Japanese cabinet had approved a measure extending the draft to include men from ages fifteen to sixty and women from seventeen to forty-five (an additional 28 million people).[6] Supporters also point to an order given by the Japanese War Ministry on August 1, 1944, ordering the disposal and execution of all Allied prisoners of war, numbering over 100,000, if an invasion of the Japanese mainland took place.[7]
pro_2_2	A speedy end to WWII was critical in saving lives	 A speedy end to WWII was critical in saving lives Supporters of the bombing also argue that waiting for the Japanese to surrender was not a cost-free option. "For China alone, depending upon what number one chooses for overall Chinese casualties, in each of the ninety-seven months between July 1937 and August 1945, somewhere between 100,000 and 200,000 persons perished, the vast majority of them noncombatants. For the other Asians alone, the average probably ranged in the tens of thousands per month, but the actual numbers were almost certainly greater in 1945, notably due to the mass death in a famine in Vietnam. Newman concluded that each month that the war continued in 1945 would have produced the deaths of 'upwards of 250,000 people, mostly Asian but some Westerners."
pro_2_3	Hiroshima and Nagasaki would have been firebombed anyway.	Hiroshima and Nagasaki would have been firebombed anyway.
con_2_1	Atomic bombs were unnecessary; Japan was looking for peace	 Atomic bombs were unnecessary; Japan was looking for peace Rob Edwards. "Hiroshima bomb may have carried hidden agenda". NewScientist.com. 21 July 2005 - "According to an account by Walter Brown, assistant to then-US secretary of state James Byrnes, Truman agreed at a meeting three days before the bomb was dropped on Hiroshima that Japan was "looking for peace". Truman was told by his army generals, Douglas Macarthur and Dwight Eisenhower, and his naval chief of staff, William Leahy, that there was no military need to use the bomb."
headline_3	Surrender: Was bombing Japan necessary in getting them to surrender?
pro_3_1	Japan would not have surrendered without being bombed first	 Japan would not have surrendered without being bombed first Professor of history Robert James Maddox. - "Even after both bombs had fallen and Russia entered the war, Japanese militants insisted on such lenient peace terms that moderates knew there was no sense even transmitting them to the United States. Hirohito had to intervene personally on two occasions during the next few days to induce hardliners to abandon their conditions" "That the militarists would have accepted such a settlement before the bombs is farfetched, to say the least."[3]
pro_3_2	Bombing Japan was justified in the post-Okinawa context	 Bombing Japan was justified in the post-Okinawa context Victor Davis Hanson. "Considering Hiroshima." National Review. August 05, 2005 - "These are the debates that matured in the relative peace of the postwar era. But in August 1945 most Americans had a much different take on Hiroshima, a decision that cannot be fathomed without appreciation of the recently concluded Okinawa campaign (April 1-July 2) that had cost 50,000 American casualties and 200,000 Japanese and Okinawa dead. Okinawa saw the worst losses in the history of the U.S. Navy. Over 300 ships were damaged, more than 30 sunk, as about 5,000 sailors perished under a barrage of some 2,000 Kamikaze attacks.
pro_3_3	Japanese needed pretext of bombings in order to surrender	 Japanese needed pretext of bombings in order to surrender The "one condition" faction, led by Togo, seized on the bombing as decisive justification of surrender. Kōichi Kido, one of Emperor Hirohito's closest advisers, stated: "We of the peace party were assisted by the atomic bomb in our endeavor to end the war." Hisatsune Sakomizu, the chief Cabinet secretary in 1945, called the bombing "a golden opportunity given by heaven for Japan to end the war."
pro_3_4	No Truman advisers said atomic bombs were unnecessary for surrender	 No Truman advisers said atomic bombs were unnecessary for surrender Professor of history Robert James Maddox. - "Another myth that has attained wide attention is that at least several of Truman’s top military advisers later informed him that using atomic bombs against Japan would be militarily unnecessary or immoral, or both. There is no persuasive evidence that any of them did so. None of the Joint Chiefs ever made such a claim, although one inventive author has tried to make it appear that Leahy did by braiding together several unrelated passages from the admiral’s memoirs. Actually, two days after Hiroshima, Truman told aides that Leahy had 'said up to the last that it wouldn’t go off.'"[4]
pro_3_5	The Stupid Eggrolls Deserved It	The Stupid Eggrolls Deserved It "How could they be stupid enough to let us do this, maybe if they didnt have such chinky eyes, they would see it coming." Said President Harry Trumen about the issue. 
con_3_1	2005 US Strategic Bombing Survey said bombing Japan unnecessary	 2005 US Strategic Bombing Survey said bombing Japan unnecessary After interviewing hundreds of Japanese civilian and military leaders after Japan surrendered, it reported: 
con_3_2	Many military men advised that bombing Japan was unnecessary	 Many military men advised that bombing Japan was unnecessary 
con_3_3	Soviet victories in Manchuria were core cause of Japanese surrender.	Soviet victories in Manchuria were core cause of Japanese surrender. Historian Tsuyoshi Hasegawa's research has led him to conclude that the atomic bombings themselves were not even the principal reason for capitulation. Instead, he contends, it was the swift and devastating Soviet victories in Manchuria that forced the Japanese surrender on August 15, 1945, though the War Council did not know the extent of the losses to the Soviets in China at that time.
headline_4	Public opinion: What was public opinion in America at the time?
pro_4_1	The American public was very supportive of bombing Japan.	The American public was very supportive of bombing Japan. 
pro_4_2	Many Americans wondered why Japan wasn't bombed earlier	 Many Americans wondered why Japan wasn't bombed earlier Victor Davis Hanson. "Considering Hiroshima." National Review. August 05, 2005 - "in August 1945 most Americans had a much different take on Hiroshima, a decision that cannot be fathomed without appreciation of the recently concluded Okinawa campaign (April 1-July 2) that had cost 50,000 American casualties and 200,000 Japanese and Okinawa dead. Okinawa saw the worst losses in the history of the U.S. Navy. Over 300 ships were damaged, more than 30 sunk, as about 5,000 sailors perished under a barrage of some 2,000 Kamikaze attacks.
headline_5	2nd bomb: Was it necessary to drop the second bomb on Nagasaki?
pro_5_1	2nd atomic bomb on Nagasaki was necessary in achieving surrender	 2nd atomic bomb on Nagasaki was necessary in achieving surrender Professor of history Robert James Maddox. - "Some historians have argued that while the first bomb might have been required to achieve Japanese surrender, dropping the second constituted a needless barbarism. The record shows otherwise. American officials believed more than one bomb would be necessary because they assumed Japanese hard-liners would minimize the first explosion or attempt to explain it away as some sort of natural catastrophe, precisely what they did. The Japanese minister of war, for instance, at first refused even to admit that the Hiroshima bomb was atomic. A few hours after Nagasaki he told the cabinet that 'the Americans appeared to have one hundred atomic bombs . . . they could drop three per day. The next target might well be Tokyo.'"
con_5_1	The US should have waited longer before bombing Nagasaki.	The US should have waited longer before bombing Nagasaki. Even if Hiroshima was necessary, the U.S. should have waited for word on the devastation of Hiroshima to filter out to the people and leaders of Japan. If they had waited, and played more diplomatic cards in the interim, it would have been possible to convince Japan to surrender. 
con_5_2	US was mercilessly impatient in dropping bombs so quickly.	US was mercilessly impatient in dropping bombs so quickly. The Americans wanted to end the war quickly - they could not even wait for two months. If they waited, the casualties would not be so much. The US killed 215,000 in the bombings. The most they can kill in two months without using the atomic bombs would definitely not exceed 200,000! - This shows they were not only impatient but biased. Just because the Japanese military caused lots of trouble, they exceeded their mercilessness to the civillians. Humanitarians like Mamoru Shinozaki could have been killed.
headline_6	Demonstration: Was an atomic bomb demonstration infeasible?
pro_6_1	Atomic demonstration over Japan would have wasted one of two bombs	 Atomic demonstration over Japan would have wasted one of two bombs Bill Dietrich. "Pro and Con on Dropping the Bomb". Seattle Times. 1995 - "With only two bombs ready (and a third on the way by late August 1945) it was too risky to "waste" one in a demonstration over an unpopulated area."
con_6_1	A demonstration over Tokyo harbor would have compelled surrender.	A demonstration over Tokyo harbor would have compelled surrender. A demonstration explosion over Tokyo harbor would have convinced Japan's leaders to quit without killing many people.
headline_7	Conventional bombs: Was a nuclear weapon necessary over conventional bombs?
pro_7_1	Conventional bombs would not have forced a surrender	Conventional bombs would not have forced a surrender. The large effect of the atomic bomb is what caused Japan to surrender. This effect could not have been caused with atomic bombs.
con_7_1	Conventional bombs would have been more moral	 Conventional bombs would have been more moral Bill Dietrich. "Pro and Con on Dropping the Bomb." Seattle Times. 1995 - "Conventional firebombing would have caused as much significant damage without making the U.S. the first nation to use nuclear weapons."
con_7_2	Conventional bombs would not kill so many people.	Conventional bombs would not kill so many people. Conventional bombs do not cause as much damage as atomic bombs. They do not cause radiation and not so many babies born many years after that would have disabilities as it would in this scenario - radiation. Conventional bombs would have forced the Japanese surrender barely two months later.
headline_8	Emperor: Was the US right to deny the emperor power?
con_8_1	US flexibility on Japanese emperor could have produced surrender	 US flexibility on Japanese emperor could have produced surrender Bill Dietrich. "Pro and Con on Dropping the Bomb." Seattle Times. 1995 - "American refusal to modify its 'unconditional surrender' demand to allow the Japanese to keep their emperor needlessly prolonged Japan's resistance."
headline_9	Military targets: Were Hiroshima and Nagasaki legitimate military targets?
pro_9_1	Hiroshima was a strategic military headquarters and target.	Hiroshima was a strategic military headquarters and target. Supporters of the bombings have emphasized the strategic significance of the targets. Hiroshima was used as headquarters of the Fifth Division and the 2nd General Army, which commanded the defense of southern Japan with 40,000 military personnel in the city. Hiroshima was a communication center, an assembly area for troops, a storage point and had several military factories as well.
pro_9_2	Nagasaki was an industrial center and military target.	Nagasaki was an industrial center and military target. Nagasaki was of great wartime importance because of its wide-ranging industrial activity, including the production of ordnance, ships, military equipment, and other war materials.
con_9_1	Hiroshima and Nagasaki were of limited military value	 Hiroshima and Nagasaki were of limited military value Bill Dietrich. "Pro and Con on Dropping the Bomb." Seattle Times. 1995 - "The two cities were of limited military value. Civilians outnumbered troops in Hiroshima five or six to one."
con_9_2	Hiroshima and Nagasaki were bad targets.	Hiroshima and Nagasaki were bad targets. No one can deny that Hiroshima and Nagasaki were key industrial areas, produced warships and other kinds of "war materials" and commanded southern Japan. However, the Americans chose the wrong area - the area that had lots of innocent civilians. Either they missed the target, or they were so merciless that they wanted to kill civilians instead of military personnel in order to make the Emperor stunned.
headline_10	Cold War: Is it wrong to think that the bombings were the first move in Cold War?
pro_10_1	Dropping bombs prevented Russians from invading and occupying Japan.	Dropping bombs prevented Russians from invading and occupying Japan. There was a real possibility that, if the United States did not drop atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Russia would have joined the United States in invading Japan, and would have subsequently demanded to jointly occupy the country. This would have resulted in a future for Japan much like the post-War future of divided Germany.
pro_10_2	Bombing Japan made world determined to never again use them	 Bombing Japan made world determined to never again use them Bill Dietrich. "Pro and Con on Dropping the Bomb". Seattle Times. 1995 - "Immediate use of the bomb convinced the world of its horror and prevented future use when nuclear stockpiles were far larger."
con_10_1	Bombing Hiroshima and Nagasaki was cynically about deterring USSR	 Bombing Hiroshima and Nagasaki was cynically about deterring USSR Rob Edwards. "Hiroshima bomb may have carried hidden agenda". NewScientist.com. 21 July 2005 - "The US decision to drop atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945 was meant to kick-start the Cold War rather than end the Second World War, according to two nuclear historians who say they have new evidence backing the controversial theory.
con_10_2	Bombing Japan initiated the Cold War arms race	 Bombing Japan initiated the Cold War arms race A number of scientists who worked on the bomb were against its use. Led by Dr. James Franck, seven scientists submitted a report to the Interim Committee (which advised the President) in May 1945, saying: "If the United States were to be the first to release this new means of indiscriminate destruction upon mankind, she would sacrifice public support throughout the world, precipitate the race for armaments, and prejudice the possibility of reaching an international agreement on the future control of such weapons."
headline_11	International law: Was the bombing of Japan consistent with international law?
pro_11_1	No international law forbade the bombing of Japanese civilians	 No international law forbade the bombing of Japanese civilians An article published in the International Review of the Red Cross - "in examining these events in the light of international humanitarian law, it should be borne in mind that during the Second World War there was no agreement, treaty, convention or any other instrument governing the protection of the civilian population or civilian property."
pro_11_2	Idea of US war crimes in bombing Japan is unacceptable	 Idea of US war crimes in bombing Japan is unacceptable John Bolton, former US ambassador to the United Nations, used Hiroshima and Nagasaki as examples why the US should not adhere to the International Criminal Court (ICC): "A fair reading of the treaty [the Rome Statute concerning the ICC], for example, leaves the objective observer unable to answer with confidence whether the United States was guilty of war crimes for its aerial bombing campaigns over Germany and Japan in World War II. Indeed, if anything, a straightforward reading of the language probably indicates that the court would find the United States guilty. A fortiori, these provisions seem to imply that the United States would have been guilty of a war crime for dropping atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. This is intolerable and unacceptable."
con_11_1	Bombing Japan was a war crime against humanity	 Bombing Japan was a war crime against humanity Peter Kuznick, director of the Nuclear Studies Institute at American University in Washington DC - "[Truman] knew he was beginning the process of annihilation of the species. It was not just a war crime; it was a crime against humanity."[6]
con_11_2	The bombing of Japan was an act of war/terrorism	 The bombing of Japan was an act of war/terrorism Historical accounts indicate that the decision to use the atomic bombs was made in order to provoke an early surrender of Japan by use of an awe-inspiring power. These observations have caused some commentators to state that the incident was an act of "war terrorism". Michael Walzer wrote, "... And, finally, there is war terrorism: the effort to kill civilians in such large numbers that their government is forced to surrender. Hiroshima seems to me the classic case."[7]
con_11_3	The bombing of Japan was illegal under the international law of the time.	The bombing of Japan was illegal under the international law of the time. In 1963 the bombings were the subject of a judicial review in Ryuichi Shimoda et al. v. The State.[43] On the 22nd anniversary of the attack on Pearl Harbor, the District Court of Tokyo declined to rule on the legality of nuclear weapons in general, but found that "the attacks upon Hiroshima and Nagasaki caused such severe and indiscriminate suffering that they did violate the most basic legal principles governing the conduct of war."
headline_12	Justifying costs: Is it wrong to believe the bomb was used to justify development?
headline_13	Image: Did the world understand/forgive this US action?
pro_13_1	No one mentions it anymore.	No one mentions it anymore. Even the history books do not include right and wrong inside. This topic is left to debate. Over 60% of the people agree with America and only 22% are the opposition.
con_13_1	Bombing Japan damaged America's image abroad	 Bombing Japan damaged America's image abroad Bill Dietrich. "Pro and Con on Dropping the Bomb." Seattle Times. 1995 - "Conventional firebombing would have caused as much significant damage without making the U.S. the first nation to use nuclear weapons."
headline_14	Did the bombings improve life for the average person in Japan?
pro_14_1	The surrender freed Japanese people from a dictator	The surrender freed Japanese people from a dictator. What were the pros and cons of the atomic bomb being dropped on Japan? - "The Japanese had a loyalty to the semi-god Emperor that made dying in order to save him not only justifiable but also expected. It was only as he surrendered after both bombings that he released his people from this obligation."
con_14_1	Hundreds of thousands of people died, it did not improve life for them	Hundreds of thousands of people died, it did not improve life for them. Life for the Japanese population cannot be improved by killing two major cities and their population.
headline_15	Did the bombings discourage countries from using atomic weapons in future?
pro_15_1	The Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombings made people aware of the effect of atomic bombs	The Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombings made people aware of the effect of atomic bombs. What were the pros and cons of the atomic bomb being dropped on Japan? "The use of the atom bomb as soon as it was implemented, most likely prevented its use when it would have been totally catastrophic for the entire planet. The main reason why it has never been used in anger ever since, and hopefully never will be, is because of how the human kind has already seen the horrors it causes."
con_15_1	It encouraged the people to use atomic bombs because they produce results...immediately.	It encouraged the people to use atomic bombs because they produce results...immediately.
