title	NATO expansion
question	Should NATO continue to expand into East Europe and possible beyond?
headline_1	Post-Cold War: Is NATO still needed in the post Cold War era?
pro_1_1	NATO is relevant in post-Cold War, helping stabilize Europe	 NATO is relevant in post-Cold War, helping stabilize Europe Strobe Talbott. "The Case for Expanding NATO". Time Magazine. 14 Jul. 1997 - Although old threats have disappeared or receded, new ones have arisen. More Europeans have died violently in the past five years than in the previous 45. The combination of actual and potential dangers requires a robust, capable collective defense pact, and NATO is the best ever.
pro_1_2	NATO has changed and advanced greatly in post-Cold War era	 NATO has changed and advanced greatly in post-Cold War era
pro_1_3	NATO expansion helps deter Russian expansionism.	NATO expansion helps deter Russian expansionism. Russia still has a large influence on its neighbors. The dissolution of the Warsaw Pact and the protracted collapse of the Soviet Union into the Commonwealth of Independent States did remove the overwhelming threat of the USSR against Western Europe. However, the threat persists in a different form. The newly independent republics remain vulnerable to the vast political and military influence of Russia. The new threat is the destruction of stability of the new republics, and thus Russian expansion that is hostile to both the republics and the Western European states in their proximity. The solution is pre-emptive expansion in the other direction. The broadening of NATO to include the Eastern republics shall offer a bulwark against Russian expansion. NATO shall continue to perform the role of a defensive alliance against a putative military threat.
pro_1_4	NATO expansion helps break from Cold War boundaries	 NATO expansion helps break from Cold War boundaries 
con_1_1	NATO is an outdated alliance against a long gone Soviet threat	 NATO is an outdated alliance against a long gone Soviet threat Russia can no longer offer the conventional military threat of the Cold War. The acceptance of this reality by the US is evidenced by the fact that there are no longer 300,000 troops stationed in Germany. The indebted and demoralised Russian infantry is presently overstretched in the persistent conflicts in Chechnya and Tajikistan. The combination of the weakness of Russia’s conventional forces and the antagonism that would be created by the deployment of NATO troops on its borders in the new republics would be dangerously counter-productive. Russia would be obliged more than ever to depend on her nuclear arsenal. Therefore, expansion is not only unnecessary but it is also likely to increase the threat of nuclear conflict in Western Europe.
con_1_2	Morally wrong for NATO to expand without limit	 Morally wrong for NATO to expand without limit "Why is NATO wrong?". 5 Dec. 2004 - "It is morally wrong for the NATO to expand without limit - that would ultimately enforce NATO values on the whole planet. That, in turn, will block alternative future worlds - a classic form of conservatism."
headline_2	Russia: Will Russia tolerate further expansion? Does this matter?
pro_2_1	The increasing trend towards Russian nationalism can be attributed to the weakness of the economy and the continued conflict in Chechnya, rather than the possibility of NATO expansion.	The increasing trend towards Russian nationalism can be attributed to the weakness of the economy and the continued conflict in Chechnya, rather than the possibility of NATO expansion. The Russian people are concerned about hardship and hazard within their own borders rather than without. Moreover, now that the promise of NATO enlargement exists, a failure to offer the promised protection would raise grave doubts regarding the steadfastness of the NATO States. Moreover, the nationalism and belligerency of the Russian parliament would be implicitly rewarded. NATO should not be teaching Russia the lesson that hostility in Eastern Europe gets results that lessen the security of all.
pro_2_2	NATO expansion is no threat to West-Russian relations	 NATO expansion is no threat to West-Russian relations Ariel Cohen, Ph.D. "NATO Enlargement is No Threat to US-Russian Relations". Heritage Foundation. February 26, 1998 - "Russia needs Western investment, technology, and cooperation to integrate into the global economy. In addition, the Western media overemphasize anti-NATO sentiment among Russians. Polls show that Russians worry more about payments of chronically delayed wages, low living standards, crime, and corruption. Russia's real security concerns, moreover, are with its Islamic neighbors and the People's Republic of China, not with the democratic West. Finally, even the Yeltsin administration, which vehemently opposes NATO enlargement, admits that the major threats to Russia are domestic, and that no foreign country currently endangers Russia's security."
pro_2_3	NATO expansion does not impair US-Russian relations	 NATO expansion does not impair US-Russian relations Ariel Cohen, Ph.D. "NATO Enlargement is No Threat to US-Russian Relations". Heritage Foundation. 26 Feb. 1998 - "Eventually bringing Russia into the Western orbit will benefit both Russia and the United States. Post-communist Russia needs to be engaged--not isolated--on the global scene, including on issues of European security. Russian objections to the current round of NATO enlargement are not widespread popular sentiments but rather a facet of Moscow's political games. The United States should mount a comprehensive program, using the USIA and other avenues of public diplomacy, to explain the truth about NATO enlargement to Russia's media and general public. Once the facts are known, Russians will understand that the ascendancy of the new members into the alliance in no way prevents the United States from continuing to work with Russia to enhance bilateral and multilateral security cooperation."
con_2_1	NATO expansion threatens and antagonizes Russia	  NATO expansion threatens and antagonizes Russia The realisation of this policy shall only serve to manufacture the expansionist demon that NATO fears. The election of the ultranationalist Duma in 1996, the choice of the hardliner Yvegeny Primakov as foreign minister, and the failure of the reformist party ‘Russia’s Choice’ under Yegor Gaidar even to clear the 5% hurdle for Duma membership can be attributed, in whole or in part, to the Russian sense of isolation from Western Europe. This sense is dramatically emboldened by such provocative actions as threatening to station NATO troops on its borders. The Russian people are unlikely to consider that the forward deployment is not directed against them, but instead is only designed to maintain internal stability in the neighbouring republics. By inflaming Russian nationalism, NATO expansion is obstructs democratic development for Russia and undermines the security of its neighbouring republics.
con_2_2	Expanding NATO jeopardizes other initiatives with Russia	 Expanding NATO jeopardizes other initiatives with Russia "Hard Choices for the NATO: Expansion vs Commitments". Young Atlantic. 29 Mar. 2008 - "The Economist and the Eurasia Monitor both point out that Russia might likely move to open land and air supply routes to Afghanistan through Russia for NATO operations, a significant move both for tactical and symbolic reasons. And recent discussions with Russia on the missile shield in Eastern Europe have finally begun to show signs of progress. Foreclosing on these two potential strategic gains for a couple of ambivalent NATO members who bring few military assets to the table seems like a poor trade."
con_2_3	NATO expansion is being blamed for Russia's problems	NATO expansion is being blamed for Russia's problems. People as high up as President Putin are saying that NATO's expansion eastwards is a direct threat to Russia's security.
con_2_4	Russians are feeling betrayed by the expansion of NATO	Russians are feeling betrayed by the expansion of NATO. Russian news organization Russia Today has reported that "Generations of Russians feel betrayed by NATO's expansion." Often, when people feel betrayed by a foreign organization, they will become nationalists.
headline_3	Democracy: Does NATO membership help liberalize countries?
pro_3_1	NATO is an alliance of democratic values, not just militaries	 NATO is an alliance of democratic values, not just militaries Daniel Fried, Assistant Secretary for European and Eurasian Affairs. "NATO: Enlargement and Effectiveness". State Department, Testimony Before the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations. 11 Mar. 2008 - "NATO is not just a military alliance; it is an alliance of values, and NATO’s success in the past and promise for the future reflect its fusion of strength and democratic values. I will speak today about how the Alliance is transforming itself to address global security challenges; its current missions and challenges, including ongoing operations in Afghanistan; and our goals for the Bucharest Summit and beyond."
pro_3_2	The prospect of NATO membership encourages democratic reforms	 The prospect of NATO membership encourages democratic reforms. The criteria for NATO membership include stable democracy ; civilian control of the armed forces ; a sufficient military capacity to make a meaningful contribution to collective security ; and the absence of active disputes on or within the borders of the State. This incentivisation is critical given the indication from the European Union at the Cologne conference that the majority of these countries will not be permitted to accede to EU membership within the coming decade. NATO membership will help these fledging States to help themselves.
pro_3_3	Reform will continue well after joining NATO	 Reform will continue well after joining NATO Daniel Fried, Assistant Secretary for European and Eurasian Affairs. "NATO: Enlargement and Effectiveness". State Department, Testimony Before the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations. 11 Mar. 2008 - "Are the aspirants perfect? No. Have they done significant work and put themselves on a trajectory for success? Yes. The United States and our Allies need to consider whether it is better for the security of the Alliance and the stability of the Balkans to have these countries in or to keep them out. We know from experience that countries who join NATO continue to address remaining reforms, and build security in their region and the world. An invitation for membership is not a finish line and these countries know that."
con_3_1	NATO membership does not help democratize countries	 NATO membership does not help democratize countries Dan Reiter. "Why NATO Enlargement Does Not Spread Democracy". International Security. 2001 - "Proponents of NATO enlargement argue that it will help spread democracy in Eastern Europe. The experience of the Cold War and post-Cold War periods demonstrates, however, that NATO enlargement has not and will not have a significant impact on the survival of democracy. During the Cold War, some states flipped between democracy and autocracy with no effect on their status within NATO. Since the end of the Cold War, former communist states have successfully pursued democracy, demonstrating a willingness to democratize regardless of whether NATO membership is in the offing. This does not mean that the West is powerless in advancing the laudable goal of promoting democracy in Eastern Europe. The EU is likely to be equally if not more effective than NATO at democratizing Eastern Europe, without the costs or the geopolitical risks incurred by enlarging the alliance. More broadly, NATO's inability to spread democracy exemplifies limits in the democratizing potential of international institutions, providing an important caveat to the liberal optimism of the synergy between democracy and international organization.
con_3_2	Stability in new democracies would be best achieved through Partnership for Peace	Stability in new democracies would be best achieved through "Partnership for Peace". The policy that received strong support under the Clinton administration involves regular consultations, exercises and opportunities for education that seek to professionalize the civilian and military institutions of the republics of the former Soviet Union. This policy of genuine aid is preferable to the wish-list of democratic ideals that compose the criteria for NATO membership. Paradoxically, were one of the republics actually able to achieve all the criteria delineated, the necessity for their NATO protection would be marginal. Conversely, were the republics predictably unable to realize these goals, the protection of NATO through expansion or PFP would be genuine. Yet, it is in these situations of tenuous stability that States will be denied proper civilian and military aid from NATO.
headline_4	Europe: Does NATO expansion benefit Europe politics and integration?
pro_4_1	NATO expansion strengthens European political integration	 NATO expansion strengthens European political integration Strobe Talbott. "The Case for Expanding NATO". Time Magazine. 14 Jul. 1997 - "The alliance is determined that the enlargement strengthen Europe as a whole, to benefit nonmembers as well. In particular, the Madrid Summit will provide an impetus for bolstering the Partnership for Peace, which for the past three years has fostered joint exercises and closer coordination of defense planning among the allies and 27 neutral and former Warsaw Pact states."
pro_4_2	Expanding NATO reduces potential of conflict between states	 Expanding NATO reduces potential of conflict between states Former United Nations Ambassador Jeane Kirkpatrick explained, "There is . . . only one reliable guarantee against aggression. It is not found in international organizations. It is found in the spread of democracy. It derives from the simple fact that true democracies do not invade one another and do not engage in aggressive wars. . . . Preserving and strengthening democracies in Central and Eastern Europe should be the United States' central goal and top foreign policy priority in Europe, in my opinion. Membership in NATO will help to achieve those goals and strengthen the alliance."[1]
headline_5	US interests: Is NATO important in advancing US interests? Is this the problem?
con_5_1	NATO is merely a puppet of US imperialism	 NATO is merely a puppet of US imperialism Rep. Ron Paul, MD. "Against NATO Expansion". Lew Rockwell. 2004 - The further expansion of NATO is in reality a cover for increased US interventionism in Europe and beyond. It will be a conduit for more unconstitutional US foreign aid and US interference in the internal politics of member nations, especially the new members from the former East.
con_5_2	NATO expansion cynically benefits US military industrial complex	 NATO expansion cynically benefits US military industrial complex 
headline_6	NATO functions: Will expansion strengthen the functions of NATO?
pro_6_1	It ought to be accepted that the NATO alliance is already diluted.	It ought to be accepted that the NATO alliance is already diluted. It should not be perceived as a standing military force, but a holding company whose individual members can draw upon a collective infrastructure and military support in the event of intervention in and around Europe. The expansion of NATO should be the opportunity to re-examine the current force deployment and strategic capability of the alliance. For example, the US maintains significant permanent deployment of infantry, aircraft and armour in Germany that could possibly be transferred to a more active role in protecting the borders of the newly independent republics. Similarly, the NATO ‘After-Action’ report into ‘Operation Allied Force’ in Kosovo highlighted the dependence of the offensive on the US capacity for strategic airlift. The acquisition of the requisite air transport by the Western European States would allow more credible guarantees of security throughout Europe. Forward deployment of NATO troops into the new republics is not a prerequisite for expansion. The core of the alliance is the pledge to protect which is undiminished by the addition of new members.
pro_6_2	NATO expansion will improve the operational capacity of NATO	 NATO expansion will improve the operational capacity of NATO 
pro_6_3	Expansion will make more resources available to NATO	 Expansion will make more resources available to NATO 
con_6_1	NATO expansion can only lead to the overstretching of the organisation and thus the undermining of stability for the entirety of Europe.	NATO expansion can only lead to the overstretching of the organisation and thus the undermining of stability for the entirety of Europe. The credibility of the commitment of article V of the NATO Charter in which every member pledges to come to the defence of another has already been undermined by the inclusion of Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic. NATO runs the grave risk of becoming so large and diverse it resembles a political organisation rather than a military alliance. The military contribution of the new members would be by definition limited. Were these republics already capable of providing sufficient security to their borders, there would be no necessity for NATO membership. At the point where the NATO commitments become more declaratory than real, the security of every State including the new members is called into question. Thus NATO expansion might in fact assist any State eager for its own expansionism in Eastern Europe.
headline_7	NATO missions: Have NATO missions been legitimate?
pro_7_1	Despite difficulties, Afghanistan is a success for NATO	 Despite difficulties, Afghanistan is a success for NATO Steven Lee Myers and Thom Shanker. "NATO Expansion, and a Bush Legacy, Are in Doubt". The New York Times. 12 Mar. 2008 - "Ten years ago, the idea that NATO would be running a major military operation half way around the world would have seemed preposterous. Even five years ago, just after the U.S.-led ouster of the Taliban, I can still remember officials in many allied countries questioning whether the Alliance should take on such a challenging task so far beyond its original mission. Today that theoretical debate about missions is over – every one of NATO’s 26 members not only supports but has forces in Afghanistan. NATO has 42,000 troops in country, 28,000 of which are from countries other than the United States. NATO’s mission began in 2003 with the provision of a single headquarters in Kabul alone, when no single country was willing to take on that task and it has gradually expanded to the north, west, south and east so that it now covers all of Afghanistan. Despite the perception that European allies are losing faith in the mission – indeed a serious concern – it is none the less the case that there are 5,000 more non-U.S. troops in Afghanistan this year than there were last year, and there are decent prospects that more European (likely French and British) troops will be pledged at the Bucharest summit and deployed later this spring."
con_7_1	NATO is in an existential crisis in Afghanistan so should not expand	 NATO is in an existential crisis in Afghanistan so should not expand Stanley Kober, a research fellow at the libertarian Cato Institute. - "We’re now talking about NATO being in an existential crisis because of Afghanistan. It seems to me that before you make promises to other countries, we should be able to resolve the existential crisis first."[2]
con_7_2	NATO has wrongly shifted from being defensive to offensive	 NATO has wrongly shifted from being defensive to offensive 
headline_8	Would NATO withstand the difficulties faced by the high cost of expansion?
pro_8_1	The expense of NATO expansion is marginal when compared to the defence budgets of the major NATO States.	The expense of NATO expansion is marginal when compared to the defence budgets of the major NATO States. The US defence expenditure alone for the fiscal year 2002 is $344 billion. Further, the correct equation is not between the expense of stationing troops in these new States and the current saving from non-deployment. The balance is between the expense of forward deployment or other military investment and the prohibitive cost in dollars and lives from a conflict between NATO and Russia, or a conflagration in any of the Eastern republics. NATO expansion is nothing more than a cost-effective insurance policy against a very real risk.
con_8_1	The costs of NATO expansion are prohibitive at a time when the Western European members are scaling back their defence budgets and the reducing the size of their conventional forces.	The costs of NATO expansion are prohibitive at a time when the Western European members are scaling back their defence budgets and the reducing the size of their conventional forces. It is estimated that expense of ten years of protecting the borders of Eastern Europe are between $10 and $50 billion. Moreover, the bill for stationing forces permanently in the territory new Eastern European members would likely exceed $100 billion per decade. Given the fragile economies of the new republics, the existing NATO States will be obliged to absorb the expense of expansion. The proper question is whether the taxpayers of the US and Western European States wish to pay to protect citizens of distant republics from phantom threats.
headline_9	Ukraine: Should Ukraine be given membership into NATO?
pro_9_1	Ukraine already has a close link with NATO	Ukraine already has a close link with NATO. NATO has said that "NATO and Ukraine actively cooperate in international peace-support operations and have developed practical cooperation in a wide range of other areas."
con_9_1	Vast majority of Ukrainians don't want to join NATO	 Vast majority of Ukrainians don't want to join NATO "Why Ukrainians stand up strongly against NATO". Pravda. 1 May 2008 - "On April 24 a Ukrainian social service announced sensational changes in Ukrainians’ preferences in foreign policy. The number of Ukrainians who backed up the country’s entry into NATO dropped ten percent within the past four months. This statement was issued by Ilko Kucheriv, the Democratic Initiatives Fund Director, who presented the results of research conducted by the Ukrainian Sociology Service by order of the fund within the period from March 17 to 31.
headline_10	Georgia: Is Georgia a good candidate for membership in NATO?
pro_10_1	Georgia has made many efforts to improve stability	Georgia has made many efforts to improve stability After the Rose revolution the country introduced a large number of reforms to improve stability and the authority of the government. Although they originally resulted in a crises, that government has now asserted its authority and shown its ability to keep the country stable. 
con_10_1	Georgia is too unstable to be a member of NATO	 Georgia is too unstable to be a member of NATO "Hard Choices for the NATO: Expansion vs Commitments". Young Atlantic. 29 Mar. 2008 - Suspending all the imprecise and misleading talk of color revolutions for a moment, Ukraine and Georgia are too politically unstable --the former divided in their Western and Russian leanings and the later with parts of the country on the brink of declaring Kosovor-style independence -- to be of much use to the alliance in the near term. And such a move would provoke real Russian anger far more than the phantom punches over the missile shield.
headline_11	Albania: Is Albania a good candidate for NATO membership?
pro_11_1	The government of Albania are putting a lot of effort into ensuring stability.	The government of Albania are putting a lot of effort into ensuring stability. There have been many large political reforms in the country to do this and, as a result, Albania would be a good candidate for NATO membership.
pro_11_2	The economy of Albania is strong.	The economy of Albania is strong. Wikipedia notes that "more and more opportunities are emerging in Albania itself as its economy steadily develops." A country like this is the sort of country that is needed in NATO.
headline_12	Croatia: Is Croatia a good candidate for NATO membership?
pro_12_1	NATO already has close links with Croatia	NATO already has close links with Croatia. Last year NATO held a military exercise in Croatia. This is the only time that NATO has ever held a military exercise in a non member country. This shows that NATO already has very close links.
pro_12_2	Croatia is doing well at securing stability	Croatia is doing well at securing stability. Croatia has a well formed government that is relatively stable. This makes it a perfect candidate for NATO membership. 
headline_13	Israel: Should Israel be given full membership in NATO?
pro_13_1	NATO already has close links with Israel	NATO already has close links with Israel "However, four years later, today, the NATO secretary-general has visited Israel officially for the first time; NATO and Israel have signed an Individual Cooperation Program (ICP); Israeli and NATO members forces have trained together in joint exercises; and, even more important, Israel is actively participating in NATO's mission Active Endeavour, being carried out since 2001 in the Mediterranean waters." Rafael L Bardají for Strategic Studies Group. "The case for Israel's full NATO membership". 11 July 2008 
headline_14	Iraq: Should Iraq be included in NATO?
con_14_1	Iraq is a very unstable country	Iraq is a very unstable country. There are daily reports of terrorist attacks and a large dispute over the running of the country so Iraq is not stable enough for NATO membership. 
headline_15	Egypt: Should Egypt be included in NATO?
pro_15_1	NATO would benefit substantially by Egypt's manpower	 NATO would benefit substantially by Egypt's manpower Thomas Friedman. "Expanding Club NATO". The New York Times. October 26, 2003 - "And that brings us to why NATO should invite in Egypt: manpower. As Lord Robertson, the NATO secretary general, explained to me, all of the NATO European members, plus Canada, have a combined total of 1.4 million soldiers on active duty -- but only 55,000 are actually usable for missions abroad. The others are either deskbound, untrained for anything other than sitting in one static position in Europe to deter the Soviet Union or lacking in logistical, engineering and command and control support for long-range missions. Also, many Euro-armies are unionized and don't care to work weekends! Since all 55,000 of NATO's usable Euro-Canadian troops are now deployed on peacekeeping missions, absent military restructuring, NATO is pretty well maxed out -- and so are we."
