title	European missile defense
question	Is the idea of missile defenses in the Czech Republic and Poland justified?
headline_1	Security: Would a missile defense system increse European security?
pro_1_1	Threat of Islamic fundamentalism justified European missile defense	 Threat of Islamic fundamentalism justified European missile defense Condaleez Rice said in July of 2008. - "Now it is clearly understood in the alliance that the challenges of the 21st century, the threats of the 21st century, make it necessary to have missile defense that can defend the countries of Europe."[1] 
pro_1_2	More rogue states are producing WMD and ballistic missiles	 More rogue states are producing WMD and ballistic missiles a recent report from the UK Ministry of defense (MoD). "[A]t current rates of progress, it seems likely that, well before 2030, one or more of these [proliferating] states will have ballistic missiles capable of reaching the UK carrying chemical or biological payloads and, potentially, nuclear weapons."[2]  
pro_1_3	Real threat of rogue states missile attacks	 Real threat of rogue states missile attacks Peter Brookes. "The Case for European Missile Defense". Heritage. March 14, 2008 - "In a day when North Korea is a nuclear weapons state and Iran is still very likely on the path to becoming one, the chance that these weapons will be used against peaceful nations is a troubling but very real possibility."
pro_1_4	Backing down on European missile defense implies weakness	 Backing down on European missile defense implies weakness Peter Brookes. "The Case for European Missile Defense". Heritage. March 14, 2008 - "In recent years, the United States decided that leaving itself deliberately vulnerable to any weapon system or state, as it did during the Cold War, was foolish. And rightfully so. Deliberate vulnerability can lead to perceptions of weakness, inviting provocation or aggression from another nation or transnational actor. In addition, being perceived as weak and vulnerable can lead a potential adversary to use threats, intimidation, "blackmail" or coercion to achieve its objectives." 
pro_1_5	Missile defenses are inherently defensive, not offensive	 Missile defenses are inherently defensive, not offensive Peter Brookes. "The Case for European Missile Defense". Heritage. March 14, 2008 - "despite the range of concerns about missile defense, it should be emphasized that missile defense is a defensive—not offensive—weapon. Indeed, the dominant design of the missile defense interceptor warhead does not even contain an explosive charge; traveling at 15,000 miles per hour, it destroys the missile warhead by the sheer force of the collision. Therefore, the idea that missile defense is an offensive system, as many have suggested, is patently false. In a way, missile defense is like an umbrella; it is only needed if it rains."
pro_1_6	European missile defense would foster stability, not instability	 European missile defense would foster stability, not instability Sally McNamara, Baker Spring and Peter Brookes. "Missile Defense: Debunking Arguments Against the Third Site in Eastern Europe". Heritage Foundation. November 6, 2007 - "Myth #4: Missile defense is destabilizing. [...] If anything, the opposite is true. Defensive weapons systems such as missile defense have a stabilizing effect on the security environment, as opposed to offensive weapons, which research has shown can be destabilizing. As a defensive capability, U.S. missile defense plans for Europe will act as a deterrent to rogue nations and non-state actors from acquiring ballistic missiles and weapons of mass destruction."
pro_1_7	Quotes expressing general support for missile defense in Europe	 Quotes expressing general support for missile defense in Europe 
con_1_1	Both missile threat and missile defense do not exist	 Both missile threat and missile defense do not exist Magnus Ranstorp, research director for the Swedish Defense College, and one of the world’s foremost experts on terrorism, wrote, "It’s a defense system that doesn’t yet work intended to stop a threat that does not yet exist."[3]
con_1_2	Missile defenses would make Europe a bigger terrorist target	 Missile defenses would make Europe a bigger terrorist target "10 Arguments against the US radar". No US bases in Czech Republic - The base will not make us more secure. On the contrary, it will place us in greater danger. At the present time, the Czech Republic has no enemies among states. And missiles and radars are not effective in combatting terrorism.
con_1_3	European missile defense increases tension, causing insecurity	 European missile defense increases tension, causing insecurity  "10 Arguments against the US radar". No US bases in Czech Republic - "Effective defense against the threats of terrorism and war requires a decrease in international tension. New bases, which increase tension, will certainly not help in this regard."
con_1_4	Missile defense systems are offensive in nature	 Missile defense systems are offensive in nature Lieber, Keir A. / Press, Daryl G. "The Rise of U.S. Nuclear Primacy". Foreign Affairs. 2006 - "the sort of missile defenses that the United States might plausibly deploy would be valuable primarily in an offensive context, not a defensive one -- as an adjunct to a U.S. first-strike capability, not as a standalone shield. If the United States launched a nuclear attack against Russia (or China), the targeted country would be left with a tiny surviving arsenal -- if any at all. At that point, even a relatively modest or inefficient missile-defense system might well be enough to protect against any retaliatory strikes, because the devastated enemy would have so few warheads and decoys left."
con_1_5	Missile defenses can counter only minimal, unsophisticated threats	 Missile defenses can counter only minimal, unsophisticated threats Philip Coyle, Victoria Samson. "Missile Defense Malfunction: Why the Proposed U.S. Missile Defenses in Europe Will Not Work". Ethics & International Affairs, Volume 22.1 (Spring 2008). April 23, 2008
con_1_6	More states have ballistic missiles, but most are Western democracies	 More states have ballistic missiles, but most are Western democracies Philip E. Coyle. "The Obstacles To the Proposed U.S. Missile Defense Systems in Europe". 18 January 2008 - "To defend the need for missile defenses, in October 2007, the White House announced, 'America faces a growing ballistic missile threat.  In 1972, just nine countries had ballistic missiles. Today, that number has grown to 27 and it includes hostile regimes with ties to terrorists.'
con_1_7	Bush administration provided no missile threat assessment	 Bush administration provided no missile threat assessment 
headline_2	Iran: Is Iran a missile threat?
pro_2_1	Iran poses a significant nuclear and ballistic missile threat	 Iran poses a significant nuclear and ballistic missile threat Peter Brookes. "The Case for European Missile Defense". Heritage. March 14, 2008 - "With Iran continuing to enrich uranium, the possibility of "loose nukes" in Pakistan, and a spate of ballistic missile tests (by Russia, China and Iran, among others) over the past year, the announcement of an agreement is undoubtedly good news. Concluding a deal this year will serve to bolster transatlantic security and protect the United States and Europe from the growing threat of long-range ballistic missiles and the unconventional payloads they may carry."
con_2_1	Iran can be deterred; attacking others would result in its annihilation	 Iran can be deterred; attacking others would result in its annihilation
con_2_2	Iran would not use missiles; they lack plausible deniability	 Iran would not use missiles; they lack "plausible deniability" Magnus Ranstorp, research director for the Swedish Defense College, and one of the world’s foremost experts on terrorism. - "Iranians always leave themselves plausible deniability. In supporting international terrorism in Afghanistan, Hezbollah in Lebanon or Shi’ite efforts in Iraq, they work through third parties, and stay in the shadows themselves."
con_2_3	Iran is simply not a geopolitical threat to international order	  Iran is simply not a geopolitical threat to international order 
con_2_4	Intelligence reports show Iranian threat has been exaggerated	 Intelligence reports show Iranian threat has been exaggerated 
headline_3	Effectiveness: Is a missile defense system effective?
pro_3_1	Missile defense systems are becoming effective and reliable	 Missile defense systems are becoming effective and reliable Sally McNamara, Baker Spring and Peter Brookes. "Missile Defense: Debunking Arguments Against the Third Site in Eastern Europe". Heritage Foundation. November 6, 2007 - "Myth #3: Missile defense is not well tested or reliable. ... Not so. On September 28, 2007, some 75 miles into space over the Pacific Ocean, a kill vehicle from America's missile defense system destroyed the mock warhead of a long-range missile. This test of the Ground-Based Midcourse Defense (GMD) system provides further evidence that its "hit-to-kill" technology works. The GMD interceptor destroyed the mock warhead by the force of collision and did not use an explosive warhead of any kind....Hit-to-kill technology is common to a variety of missile defense interceptors now in either development or deployment. In addition to the GMD system, the technology is used in the Navy's Standard Missile-3, Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD), and Patriot PAC-3 interceptors. Roughly 80 percent of recent tests across all four of these programs have been successful....Yet, critics continue to argue that missile defense will prove ineffective. Congress should reject arguments that cloak policy preference in technical analysis and should protect Americans with a policy of designing and building the most effective missile defense system possible."
con_3_1	Missile defense is untested under realistic conditions	 Missile defense is untested under realistic conditions
con_3_2	Decoys and countermeasures can easily defeat missile defenses	 Decoys and countermeasures can easily defeat missile defenses "Slovak prime minister slams U.S. for missile defense adventure". Reuters. 27 Jan. 2008 - Decoys and countermeasures are the Achilles heel of missile defense, and also of the proposed missile defense system in Europe. (…)
headline_4	Russia: Does Russia oppose a European defense system?
pro_4_1	European missile defenses would not counter Russia-to-US attack	 European missile defenses would not counter Russia-to-US attack Peter Brookes. "The Case for European Missile Defense". Heritage. March 14, 2008 - "The Kremlin also insists the limited system would undermine Russia's nuclear deterrent, despite the fact that a Russian land-based nuclear strike on the United States would not be launched on a trajectory over Poland, but would fly toward its American targets over the North Pole, or Iceland and Greenland, depending on the targets. [...] In fact, according to the MDA, the proposed kinetic kill vehicle designated for deployment in Poland is simply not fast enough to catch a Russian land-based ICBM in a tail-chase scenario. These interceptors, therefore, would have no capability against Russia's sea- or air-based deterrence capabilities. (Interestingly, at the time, Moscow did not object to the U.S. decision six years ago to deploy missile defenses at California's Vandenberg Air Force Base and Alaska's Fort Greely to counteract the still-evolving North Korean nuclear and ballistic missile threat.)"
con_4_1	A European missile defense system threatens and antagonizes Russia	 A European missile defense system threatens and antagonizes Russia Philip Coyle, Victoria Samson. "Missile Defense Malfunction: Why the Proposed U.S. Missile Defenses in Europe Will Not Work". Ethics & International Affairs, Volume 22.1 (Spring 2008). April 23, 2008 - "The U.S. proposal to establish missile defense sites in Poland and the Czech Republic has exacerbated relations with Russia to a degree not seen since the height of the Cold War"
con_4_2	Denying Russia's alternative shows missile defense targets Russia	 Denying Russia's alternative shows missile defense targets Russia 
con_4_3	US missiles in Europe can carry nuclear warheads against Russia	 US missiles in Europe can carry nuclear warheads against Russia 
headline_5	Arms race: Can a European missile defense system avoid causing an arms race?
pro_5_1	European missile defense will not incite new arms race	 European missile defense will not incite new arms race "Missile Defense and Europe". State Department. March 28, 2007 - "The debate should not be, in my view, about issues of 20 years ago and issues of a so-called arms race, and in this context I was struck that today, today in Berlin as a matter of fact, the Americans and Russians are sitting down to discuss post-START issues and transparency issues for the post-START regime after the START Treaty expires. I mention this because the transparency and confidence-building measures which we're going to be discussing are a part and an illustrative part of the developing good strategic relationship between the United States and Russia as we address the new world that we face together. It is also true that the Treaty of Moscow, which reduced arms, reduced warheads on both sides, is being implemented. To remind you, it calls for massive reductions in warheads on both sides, down to between 1,700 and 2,200 by the end of 2012. The United States is on target to meet reductions. Russia is well on target to meet reductions. So the notion that somehow missile defense has to be seen as part of an emerging arms race between the United States and Russia, which is some of the odd commentary I hear from some Europeans, has no relationship to reality and the debate about missile defense ought to be conducted in a way, it seems to me, that reflects reality."
con_5_1	European missile defense reawakens Cold War tensions and conflict	 European missile defense reawakens Cold War tensions and conflict Joanne Landy and Thomas Harrison. "Pushing Missile Defense in Europe". February 22, 2008 - "When the Soviet Union first built a limited missile defense system in the late 1960s, the United States responded by building up a nuclear strike strategy to overwhelm the new technology. The cycle of nuclear one-upmanship was partially halted by the ABM Treaty, but then the Bush administration withdrew from the treaty in 2002. Now, writes Hans Kristenson of the Federation of American Scientists, “history repeats itself, but the table has been turned. Today it is the United States building a limited missile defense system (more capable than the Soviet system, but purportedly focused on “rogue” state missiles), and it is the Russians who say they need to target it to maintain the effectiveness of their deterrent. The Cold War may be over, but military and policy planners in both countries still think in Cold War terms."
headline_6	Czech Republic: Is the missile defense plan for the Czech Republic a good idea?
pro_6_1	Radar in Brdy is vital to Czech Republic's security.	Radar in Brdy is vital to Czech Republic's security. Radar (or any other component of the missile defence system) is of great importance to the security of the Czech Republic (as well as Europe). It makes the Czech Republic an important NATO member who must be protected - in the interest of each and every state protected by the missile defence system.
pro_6_2	Public opinion is immaterial.	Public opinion is immaterial. Public opinion should not be taken into consideration when national defence is at stake, mostly because the main problem is NIMBY: People might want missile defence - but not right in their backyard. Unfortunately, any place for missile defence is someone's vicinity, which - if taken into consideration - would prevent the government from taking any such politically unpopular steps.
con_6_1	Missile defense in the Czech Republic makes the country a target	 Missile defense in the Czech Republic makes the country a target Josef Skuhra, 57, a Czech village maintenance worker. - "We’ve always been happy being forgotten about, but now Russia and the United States, who have always been enemies, fight over us. And once the Americans start building, how long can it be before even Osama bin Laden knows our name?"[6]
con_6_2	Majority of Czech population opposes and protests missile defense	 Majority of Czech population opposes and protests missile defense "Poll: 70 percent of Czechs oppose U.S. missile defense plan". International Herald Tribune. 15 Jan. 2008
con_6_3	Missile bases are illegitimate without popular approval	 Missile bases are illegitimate without popular approval The current attempt to place a base here, this time from the other direction, would serve to reawaken the Cold War in Europe and could reignite a new arms race. It is unthinkable that a democratic country should make a decision of such long-range impact, as the acceptance of a foreign military base on its soil, without an open debate. Neither the government nor Parliament has the mandate to make such a decision alone. This is a question which requires the input of the broad public because the population will have to live with the effects of such a base long after the current Parliament finishes its term and all the current polititians are retired. The only responsible way to make such serious decision is by referendum.
headline_7	Poland: Is a missile defense system in Poland favorable?
con_7_1	Poland has rejected US missile shield offer	 Poland has rejected US missile shield offer "Poland rejects U.S. missile shield offer". Reuters. 7 June 2008
con_7_2	The majority of poles oppose missile defense on their territory	 The majority of poles oppose missile defense on their territory According to polls conducted by survey center Pentor, more than half (53%) of Poles are against deployment of American missile defense elements on the country's territory, while 34% support it.[7]
headline_8	Sovereignty: Is it consistent with national sovereignty?
con_8_1	Missile defenses in Europe will advance US interests over host country	 Missile defenses in Europe will advance US interests over host country "10 Arguments against the US radar". No US bases in Czech Republic  - "If our country plays host to this extraordinarily powerful and technically advanced U.S. radar base, we will become a tool of the unilateral U.S. foreign policy, which is aimed at military hegemony and the so-called war against terrorism. This war has thusfar succeeded only in increasing terrorism, destroying Iraq, destabilizing the region and giving rise to the prisons at Guantanamo Bay and Abu Ghraib." 
con_8_2	Missile defense bases breach sovereignty of European hosts	 Missile defense bases breach sovereignty of European hosts "10 Arguments against the US radar". No US bases in Czech Republic - "Just as in the case of a missile base, the Czech Republic would have no say in what happens at a U.S. radar base on our soil or what would truly be installed there. The base would be completely under the control of U.S. Air Command in Europe."
headline_9	Politics: Is a European missile defense system politically beneficial?
pro_9_1	European missile defense will improve transatlantic security	 European missile defense will improve transatlantic security Peter Brookes. "The Case for European Missile Defense". Heritage. March 14, 2008 - "There are other advantages to fielding a missile defense system in Europe for the United States, too. Hosting a transatlantic missile defense system will deepen, and further unify, the security relationship between European NATO members, especially Poland and the Czech Republic, and the United States, enhancing our mutual national security against external threats from ballistic missiles and weapons of mass destruction." 
con_9_1	European missile defense is bitterly dividing EU	 European missile defense is bitterly dividing EU Matthew Schofield. "Bush’s Missile Defense Radar Plan Riles Czechs". McClatchy Newspapers. July 2, 2007 - "The unilateral U.S. drive for an unproven system has in fact divided Europe, according to Otfried Nassauer, an expert on defense policy at the German research center Berlin Institute for Trans-Atlantic Security. 'In the end, Europeans have to decide whether a theoretical defense system is worth a very real split in Europe,' he said. 'It’s classic Bush. He had a plan and he’s going ahead with it, no matter the costs or arguments against it.'"
con_9_2	US unilateral negotiations undermine legitimacy of missile defense	 US unilateral negotiations undermine legitimacy of missile defense 
con_9_3	US missile defense proposals in Europe violate Moscow Treaty	 US missile defense proposals in Europe violate Moscow Treaty 
headline_10	US interests: Is a Euroepan missile defense system in Us interests?
con_10_1	European missile defense gives EU veto in US security	 European missile defense gives EU veto in US security Taylor Dinerman. "European missile defense: why bother?". 26 Mar. 2007 - "such weapons will give our allies a veto over whether or not an ICBM aimed at a US city will or will not hit its target. Once the system is operational, a British or Polish politician would have, at best, a few seconds to make up his or her mind to allow a GMD interceptor to launch. In the future a European leader might be in a position to decide whether a nuclear weapon would or would not explode over New York or Washington."
headline_11	Alternatives: Is European missile defense indispensable or do alternatives exist (ie space)?
pro_11_1	European missile defense is a necessary part of a layered defense	 European missile defense is a necessary part of a "layered defense" Sally McNamara, Baker Spring and Peter Brookes. "Missile Defense: Debunking Arguments Against the Third Site in Eastern Europe". Heritage Foundation. November 6, 2007 - "Myth #5: Other missile defense systems such as THAAD and Aegis would be more valuable than the proposed third site installations.
con_11_1	Space-based defenses more effective than EU missile defense	 Space-based defenses more effective than EU missile defense Taylor Dinerman. "European missile defense: why bother?". 26 Mar. 2007 - "If America were to channel some of the funds it now spends in Europe into a new space-based military force, future Presidents will have undreamed of military alternatives."
con_11_2	Space-based missile defense not subject to EU politics	 Space-based missile defense not subject to EU politics Taylor Dinerman. "European missile defense: why bother?". 26 Mar. 2007 - "A new version of Brilliant Pebbles or an orbital battlestation would be far more effective and would not be subject to the vagaries of European politics."
headline_12	Economics: Would European missile defense be economically beneficial?
con_12_1	Missile defense would increase arms spending and harm the poor.	Missile defense would increase arms spending and harm the poor. The construction of more bases threatens to spark new cycles of armament around the world. In developing countries, this results in the deepening of poverty for already desperate populations. In Europe, it could mean the end of state ensurance of social security.
con_12_2	Missile defense motivated by defense contracts over security	 Missile defense motivated by defense contracts over security "Is National Missile Defence Really About Protecting The US?". The Ecologist. 8 Mar. 2008
con_12_3	US missile defense spending is out of proportion to relative benefits	 US missile defense spending is out of proportion to relative benefits "Missile Defense: Longest Running Scam Exposed". The Nation. 12 Mar. 2008 - "Rep. Tierney pointed out that we have spent over $120 billion on missile defense in the past 25 years; that the annual budget is expected to double by 2013 to $19 billion; and that the current $10 billion per year is equal to one-third of the Homeland Security budget, roughly equal to the State Department budget, greater than the FEMA budget, 20 times greater than public diplomacy expenditures, and 30 times greater than Peace Corps."
headline_13	Health: Are the health effects of a radar system OK, tolerable?
headline_14	NATO: How does NATO membership affect this debate?
pro_14_1	NATO members support a European missile defense system	 NATO members support a European missile defense system Sally McNamara, Baker Spring and Peter Brookes. "Missile Defense: Debunking Arguments Against the Third Site in Eastern Europe". Heritage Foundation. November 6, 2007 - "Myth #2: NATO is opposed to a U.S. missile defense system in Europe. Quite the contrary. NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer stated after the April 2007 North Atlantic Council meeting: "There is absolutely a shared threat perception...Allies all agree that there is a threat from ballistic missiles."[6] NATO military experts are currently studying plans for a short-range missile defense system to protect southern European nations that will not be covered by the U.S. initiative.[7] Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer has indicated that this system will complement the U.S. missile defense system, giving the clearest indication yet that NATO considers U.S. plans vital to Europe's defense.
con_14_1	NATO members have no responsibility to create European Missile Defense.	NATO members have no responsibility to create European Missile Defense.
