title	European Union Expansion
question	What are the pros and cons of EU expansion and of EU membership itself?
headline_1	Moral: Is it morally right to expand the EU?
pro_1_1	It is morally right to expand benefits of EU membership.	It is morally right to expand benefits of EU membership. It is right to extend to Central and Eastern Europe the economic and political benefits enjoyed by existing EU members as they recover from the “dead hand” of a communist rule imposed after deals between the USSR and the USA and Britain at the end of World War II. 
pro_1_2	European Union should include all of Europe; it's in their name.	European Union should include all of Europe; it's in their name. It would be hypocritical for a European Union not to embrace the geographical scope it claims within its own name.
con_1_1	Political corruption of eastern Europe threatens EU.	Political corruption of eastern Europe threatens EU. The ex-communist applicants often lack entrenched democracies and are sometimes prone to political corruption which could undermine the existing strengths of the Union. 
con_1_2	Mixing rich and poor states in EU mixes interests.	Mixing rich and poor states in EU mixes interests. current EU policies (e.g. on global trade, the environment) reflect the interests of its members, effectively a rich states’ club; it is not in the interests of these states, or their citizens, to dilute the present relative homogeneity of interests with several poorer nations with different priorities.
headline_2	Economics: Is EU enlargement good for EU economics, budgets?
pro_2_1	EU enlargement will increase cross-border trade.	EU enlargement will increase cross-border trade. As new EU members become more prosperous their citizens will consume more and more of the high-technology, luxury, and creative products and services produced by existing members. Despite protectionist fears to the contrary, NAFTA has proved a success for the USA as more prosperous Mexicans spend more on imported American-made consumer goods, while the availability of cheaper labour south of the border has helped American manufacturers compete globally.
pro_2_2	EU enlargement improves European living standards	 EU enlargement improves European living standards "Enlargement". European Commission - "There will be a better quality of life for citizens throughout Europe as the new members adopt EU policies for protection of the environment and the fight against crime, drugs and illegal immigration."
pro_2_3	EU expansion will improve flow of knowledge and technology	 EU expansion will improve flow of knowledge and technology Marian L. Tupy. "EU Enlargement: Costs, Benefits, and Strategies for Central and Eastern European Countries". Policy Analysis. 18 Sept. 2002 - "Exchange of knowledge, technology, and new ideas will become easier [with EU enlargement]."
pro_2_4	EU enlargement will open countries to foreign competition	 EU enlargement will open countries to foreign competition Marian L. Tupy. "EU Enlargement: Costs, Benefits, and Strategies for Central and Eastern European Countries". Policy Analysis. 18 Sept. 2002 - "Foreign competition [from EU enlargement] will improve business transparency and corporate accountability."
pro_2_5	EU enlargement will improve foreign direct investment into eastern Europe.	EU enlargement will improve foreign direct investment into eastern Europe. 
con_2_1	Economic integration and liberalization do not depend on EU	 Economic integration and liberalization do not depend on EU Marian L. Tupy. "EU Enlargement: Costs, Benefits, and Strategies for Central and Eastern European Countries". Policy Analysis. 18 Sept. 2002 - "accession to the EU is neither a necessary nor a sufficient condition for economic growth. The combined effects of market access and economic liberalization, not EU membership, optimize economic growth."
con_2_2	Expanding to include mostly poorer states will strain EU budget.	Expanding to include mostly poorer states will strain EU budget. Even if expansion was limited to the six best candidates, the EU would gain 63 million people, adding 17% to its population but only $255 billion, or 3%, to its GDP. This will put great strains on the EU budget, resulting in the removal of much of the regional aid currently available to poorer members - at a time when the advent of the Euro makes such redistribution of wealth ever more necessary to ensure economic stability.
con_2_3	EU labor regulations will reduce productivity of new entrants	 EU labor regulations will reduce productivity of new entrants Western European labor regulations will make many workers in the less-productive CEECs less competitive; agricultural subsidies will favor current EU members over future ones; and stringent environmental regulations will impose a cost of up to 120 billion euros on CEECs.
con_2_4	EU environmental regulations will cost new member states	 EU environmental regulations will cost new member states Marian L. Tupy. "EU Enlargement: Costs, Benefits, and Strategies for Central and Eastern European Countries". Policy Analysis. 18 Sept. 2002 - "By insisting on Western environmental standards, the EU will likely contribute to the prolongation of economic malaise in CEE."
con_2_5	New entrants into EU suffer from increased tax burdens.	New entrants into EU suffer from increased tax burdens. 
con_2_6	EU member states suffer from socialist economic environment	 EU member states suffer from socialist economic environment Marian L. Tupy. "EU Enlargement: Costs, Benefits, and Strategies for Central and Eastern European Countries". Policy Analysis. 18 Sept. 2002 - "Farmers can be excused for complaining that EU economic decisionmaking is eerily reminiscent of production quotas under Soviet occupation."
con_2_7	EU enlargement sends jobs from wealthy to poorer countries.	EU enlargement sends jobs from wealthy to poorer countries.
con_2_8	Richer EU states cannot afford to subsidize poorer states.	Richer EU states cannot afford to subsidize poorer states.
headline_3	Politics: Is EU enlargement good for the EU politically?
pro_3_1	EU expansion is good for current EU members politically.	EU expansion is good for current EU members politically. It will extend to almost all of continental Europe a project which has ensured unprecedented levels of peace and cooperation among former enemies in western Europe for nearly half a century. Entrenching peace, democracy and economic integration throughout the continent is to the benefit of all European nations, as has been demonstrated by the negative examples of recent Balkan conflicts, which have involved other European nations in (expensive) military and humanitarian missions, and have created major refugee problems.
pro_3_2	Integration is not prevented by EU expansion.	Integration is not prevented by EU expansion. A broader union can also be a deeper one - the EU has been expanding at regular intervals since 1973 and all the while integration has been steadily increasing
con_3_1	Economic interests are not represented by unelected EU bureaucracy	 Economic interests are not represented by unelected EU bureaucracy Marian L. Tupy. "EU Enlargement: Costs, Benefits, and Strategies for Central and Eastern European Countries". Policy Analysis. 18 Sept. 2002 - "The long-term economic wellbeing of the European peoples is incompatible with centralization of political and economic decisionmaking in the hands of the unelected bureaucracy in Brussels."
con_3_2	Expansion strains EU institution and hampers decision-making, action.	Expansion strains EU institution and hampers decision-making, action. e.g. the Commission and Court of Justice, endangering their effective working and the current benefits of membership of the EU. Expansion would be very risky unless it was preceded by major reforms of voting in the Council of Ministers to avoid deadlock in decision-making (or the tyranny of voting majorities by coalitions of small countries with a fraction of the EU’s population), and of the size and national-composition of the EU Commission itself, already unwieldy at 20 members. In addition, the EU stands to gain a long eastern border open to smuggling of both goods and illegal immigrants, and one which will bring the Union into constant friction with a suspicious Russia. The accession of divided Cyprus is also dangerous.
con_3_3	A larger EU is more difficult to integrate politically.	A larger EU is more difficult to integrate politically.
con_3_4	Enlargement would damage commerce of WTO Member States.	Enlargement would damage commerce of WTO Member States.
con_3_5	EU enlargement helps spread health and food standards	 EU enlargement helps spread health and food standards 
con_3_6	EU enlargement will strain socio-cultural differences	 EU enlargement will strain socio-cultural differences 
con_3_7	Former USSR states do not want to be dominated by the EU.	Former USSR states do not want to be dominated by the EU.
con_3_8	Drugs will flow more easily due to entry of new countries into the EU.	Drugs will flow more easily due to entry of new countries into the EU.
con_3_9	Admitting new members to the EU will increase transmission of diseases.	Admitting new members to the EU will increase transmission of diseases.
con_3_10	Admitting new members into the EU will increase illegal immigration.	Admitting new members into the EU will increase illegal immigration. 
headline_4	Subsidies: Are subsidies within the EU beneficial?
pro_4_1	Richer member states gain more than they pay out in subsidies.	Richer member states gain more than they pay out in subsidies. Richer member states gain more from being members of a large single market than they pay out in transfers to the poorer countries
con_4_1	Agricultural subsidies will favor current EU members over future ones.	Agricultural subsidies will favor current EU members over future ones.
headline_5	Job migration: Will EU enlargement not result in distabilizing job migrations?
pro_5_1	EU expansion does not result in jobs migrations from east to west.	EU expansion does not result in jobs migrations from east to west. Current fears are similar to those voiced before the accession of the relatively poor Portugal, Greece and Spain to the EU, but in none of these cases was there a flood of poor workers to the richer states.
pro_5_2	Immigration helps drive economic growth.	Immigration helps drive economic growth.
pro_5_3	Cheaper labour is good for the economies of richer European nations.	Cheaper labour is good for the economies of richer European nations. 
pro_5_4	Better for companies to relocate to Central Europe than to India or China.	Better for companies to relocate to Central Europe than to India or China.
pro_5_5	EU will work with new members to tackle organized crime.	EU will work with new members to tackle organized crime.
con_5_1	Free movement of new EU citizens will cause job migrations.	Free movement of new EU citizens will cause job migrations. Free movement of workers within the EU threatens to flood richer current members with millions of poor job-seekers from the east, threatening the livelihoods of millions of people in the west who rely upon wages these migrants would undercut.
headline_6	CAP: Will enlargement fit with Common Agricultural Policy?
pro_6_1	Enlargement may undermine Common Agricultural Policy, but for the better.	Enlargement may undermine Common Agricultural Policy, but for the better. The CAP’s subsidies are costly, inefficient and bad for EU consumers. Reform has been sought unsuccessfully for many years, so if EU expansion finally prompts change it will be a benefit. The prospect of cheaper food and manufactured goods from Central and Eastern Europe is clearly of benefit to EU consumers.
con_6_1	Expansion could devastate farming in western Europe.	Expansion could devastate farming in western Europe. This is where land and labour costs and environmental standards are much higher than in the east. The prospect of new entrants receiving vast subsidies under the Common Agricultural Policy (current cost $48 billion per annum) would make this danger worse, while the collapse or reduction of the CAP under the strain of expansion would be catastrophic. Not only would a collapse of the farming industries of current members be an economic and strategic disaster, it would have grave environmental consequences.
headline_7	Democracy: Will EU expansion help spread democratic practices?
pro_7_1	Prospect of EU membership compels reform in former-USSR countries,	Prospect of EU membership compels reform in former-USSR countries, driving changes (e.g. legal reforms, privatisations, in human rights) which are desirable in their own right. The progress made in a few years by the likely early entrants to the EU has been impressive and deserves reward. Conversely, if the prospect of EU membership was now denied to these states, the often unpopular reform process might stall and public opinion could turn towards dangerous nationalisms.
con_7_1	Public opinion runs against the European Union.	Public opinion runs against the European Union. Public opinion towards the EU among current members ranges from lukewarm to mildly hostile. There is a risk that expansion could turn this lack of enthusiasm into active hostility, as citizens see their tax-euros going east and poor job-seekers flooding west, while aid to their own depressed regions is cut, destabilising the EU and endangering the benefits it has brought over several decades.
headline_8	
con_8_1	Applicants need to do more to prove commitment to EU membership.	Applicants need to do more to prove commitment to EU membership. It is inconceivable that any candidate state will have enacted the entire acquis communitaire (80 000 pages of EU laws and standards) into their domestic law within the next five years. They should be told to go away and come back when they have done so.
headline_9	Foreign policy: Will enlargement improve the foreign policy of the EU?
pro_9_1	Enlargement strengthens EU's role in world affairs	 Enlargement strengthens EU's role in world affairs This will be true in foreign and security policy, trade policy, and the other fields of global governance.
