title	Death penalty
question	Is the death penalty justified?
headline_1	Justice/desert: Are executions sometimes required to uphold justice/due desert?
pro_1_1	The death penalty is proportional punishment/due desert for murder	 The death penalty is proportional punishment/due desert for murder US Supreme Court Justice Potter Stewart, Majority opinion in 7-2 ruling that the death penalty is a constitutionally acceptable form of punishment for premeditated murder. 2 Jul. 1976. - "We are concerned here only with the imposition of capital punishment for the crime of murder, and when a life has been taken deliberately by the offender, we cannot say that the punishment is invariably disproportionate to the crime. It is an extreme sanction suitable to the most extreme of crimes."[1]
pro_1_2	Executions respond appropriately to the most heinous crimes	 Executions respond appropriately to the most heinous crimes Michael D. Bradbury, Ventura County District Attorney. "The Death Penalty is an Affirmation of the Sanctity of Life". LA Times. - A two and a half-year-old girl was kidnapped, raped, sodomized, tortured and mutilated with vise grips over six hours. Then she was strangled to death. Her assailant, Theodore Frank, according to court records and his own admissions, had already molested more than 100 children during a 20-year period. A sentence of death is the only appropriate punishment for such a serial assailant committing such an extraordinarily heinous crime."
pro_1_3	Innocent life must be valued over that of a murderer	Innocent life must be valued over that of a murderer.
pro_1_4	Executions help society express horror and abhorrence of murder	 Executions help society express horror and abhorrence of murder Don Feder, Boston Herald Columnist. "McVeigh Makes the Case for Capital Punishment". 21 May 2001 - "Executing a murderer is the only way to adequately express our horror at the taking of an innocent life. Nothing else suffices...A murderer sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole can still laugh, learn and love, listen to music and read, form friendships, and do the thousand-and-one things (mundane and sublime) forever foreclosed to his victims."
pro_1_5	Life imprisonment does not repudiate murder like capital punishment	 Life imprisonment does not repudiate murder like capital punishment Jeff Jacoby, Boston Globe Columnist. "The feeble 'arguments' against capital punishment". Jewish World Review. 19 June 2001 - "'The loss of freedom for the remainder of one's life is no mild punishment,' James Bernstein of New York wrote to the Times. 'We do not need the death penalty to express society's utter repudation of those who would take the lives of others.'
pro_1_6	Death penalty addresses crimes where victim can never be compensated	 Death penalty addresses crimes where victim can never be compensated Steven Farrell. "A Conservative Case for the Capital Punishment". 18 Mar. 2005 - "If one robs a store, the captured thief can pay back the debt and, in fact, under biblical law (which is better than today's law) would be tasked to work for the man he robbed until the debt was satisfied seven times the value of the goods stolen. With such a bounteous payback, the thief is then freed and, by his honorable labor, restored to a position of trust..." Farrell continues that murder is not a repayable crime, that society can never again trust that person again, and that the person, therefore, permanently forfeits all rights as a citizen, including the right to life.
pro_1_7	Executing killers is not comparable to raping rapists	 Executing killers is not comparable to raping rapists "The Death Penalty: Morally Defensible?". Casey's Critical Thinking - "Abolitionists often insist that if we argue for lex talion justice we must be prepared to rape rapists, beat sadists, and burn down the houses of arsonists...Why then, if it is not morally okay to rape rapists, is it acceptable to execute murderers? The answer is simple. There is no redeeming value to carrying out the former punishment. Raping the rapist will only cause someone else to degrade themselves by doing it. It will not prevent the rapist from raping again. Executing murderers, however, prevents them from committing their crime again, and thus protects innocent victims. The good, therefore, outweighs the bad, and the executioner is morally justified in taking the murderer's life."[2]
pro_1_8	The death penalty is about punishment/due desert, not vengeance	 The death penalty is about punishment/due desert, not vengeance David Gelernter. "What do Murderers Deserve?". Commentary Magazine. March/April 1999 - "Opponents of capital punishment describe it as a surrender to emotions--to grief, rage, fear, blood lust. For most supporters of the death penalty, this is false. Even when we resolve in principle to go ahead, we have to steel ourselves. Many of us would find it hard to kill a dog, much less a man. Endorsing capital punishment means not that we yield to our emotions but that we overcome them. If we favor executing murderers, it is not because we want to but because, however much we do not want to, we consider ourselves obliged to."
con_1_1	Eternal torture worse than clean break	Eternal torture worse than clean break Imagine this room. It's a dirty, unkept room, with cockroaches and rats looking for bits of food. The people living near you are ready to kill, rape, and hurt you. The food is horrible. You feel terror in the night when you hear someone being beaten up. Now, this is life imprisonment, and you have to live this way until the rest of your life. Now, the death penalty. It's a clean break, where you are shown in TV, have a conjugal visit, have an expensive, delicious last meal, then you are painlessly killed by lethal injection. It's humane and painless. Now, compare these two punishments. Life imprisonment is certainly worse than death penalty. Life imprisonment is the same as torture, while in the death penalty, you get a clean, painless break wihtout having remorse for your crimes. Plus you shouldn't have committed a murder if your life is perfect. If you got a happy family and people that care about, you shouldn't even be thinking about murdering someone unless you have a reason for wanting life imprisonment, or the death penalty. A perfect life is when you have people who love you and you love them back. One of the many reason someone might chose to do something against the law is because they are after money, too much money.
con_1_2	Life in prison is a sufficient punishment; execution is excessive	 Life in prison is a sufficient punishment; execution is excessive James Bernstein. "The Death of McVeigh: A Time to Reflect". Letter to the New York Times. June 13, 2001 - "The loss of freedom for the remainder of one's life is no mild punishment. We do not need the death penalty to express society's utter repudation of those who would take the lives of others."
con_1_3	Life in prison is a greater punishment than the death penalty	 Life in prison is a greater punishment than the death penalty If the goal is to punish a person as severely as possible, life without parole can be seen as meeting this objective better than capital punishment. The reason is that life without parole forces a murderer to live out their remorseful life, whereas capital punishment saves them from living it. This is why many people on death row express feelings of relief about being put to death.
con_1_4	The punishment principle of an eye for an eye is debunked	 The punishment principle of an "eye for an eye" is debunked Steve Kangas. "Myth: Murderers deserve death." The Long FAQ on Liberalism. - "Fact: Only God or an omniscient being could determine that; Jesus argued against "an eye for an eye.". Summary. Almost all societies have dispensed with the principle of "an eye for an eye," and considered it a step toward more enlightened civilization. Christians who cite "an eye for an eye" in their defense of the death penalty are usually unaware of the strict criteria that God imposed before it could be used to take human life. The Old Testament also allowed the death penalty for crimes that today we consider less than misdemeanors -- clearly, the Old Testament law is archaic. Finally, Jesus himself argued against the principle of "an eye for an eye."
con_1_5	Proportional justice risks justifying extreme punishment such as torture	 Proportional justice risks justifying extreme punishment such as torture If the death penalty is considered a "proportional" punishment for someone who commits 1 murder, wouldn't we need a harsher sentence for a person that tortures and murders 10 people? If proportionality is the model, we  might have to torture criminals in order to exert sufficient punishment. Therefore, the inherent flaw in a concept of justice based on "proportionality" is that it has no limits, creating a slippery slope to torture in the name of justice.
con_1_6	The death penalty is merely a vehicle for vengeance	 The death penalty is merely a vehicle for vengeance Harry Lee Anstead, Florida Supreme Court Justice, dissenting from a ruling that upheld the constitutionality of the electric chair. St. Petersburg Times. 26 Sept. 1999 - "Our justice system is not simply an instrument of vengeance, despite the connotation to that effect contained in the extreme rhetoric that sometimes surrounds the constitutional debate over continuing use of the electric chair."[3]
con_1_7	Murderers might deserve death, but decency requires mercy	 Murderers might "deserve" death, but decency requires mercy George N. Boyd, professor of religion at Trinity University. "Capital Punishment: Deserved and Wrong". The Christian Century. February 17, 1988 - "Opponents of the death penalty should be emphatic that relative to what is 'deserved' -- that is, to what those who have committed murder have reason to claim from their society -- there are many who 'deserve' to die. Indeed there must also be many who similarly 'deserve' that penalty among those who receive lesser sentences (as also among other guilty persons who are never apprehended or are not convicted). Indeed, there are some for whom legal execution is much better than what they 'deserve.' If the rhetoric rings a bit harsh to anti-capital punishment sensibilities, it is not designed for preaching to the converted. Somehow it must be conveyed that the capital punishment debate is not about what murderers deserve, but rather about how society should express and defend its fundamental values."
con_1_8	Killing is never justified; the death penalty is no exception	Killing is never justified; the death penalty is no exception.
con_1_9	The death penalty does not advance any social objective	 The death penalty does not advance any social objective P. N. Bhagwati, former Chief Justice of India. - "Death penalty does not serve any social purpose or advance any Constitutional value"[4]
headline_2	Compassion: Does capital punishment demonstrate compassion and decency?
pro_2_1	Capital punishment is compassionate to the victims	 Capital punishment is compassionate to the victims Jeff Jacoby, Boston Globe Columnist. "The Unjust Logic of Sparing Murderers". August 1998 - "It is up to the law to speak for all grief-stricken survivors confronted with the butchery of someone near and dear. Capital punishment says to them: We, the community, take your loss with the utmost seriousness."
pro_2_2	The executed are not deprived of everything; they keep their souls.	The executed are not deprived of everything; they keep their souls. Capital punishment could only be the severest and most horrific punishment if it was able to deprive the executed of their souls and their after lives. But, it only deprives them of their bodies and lives on earth.
pro_2_3	Capital punishment best prepares an evil soul for the after life	 Capital punishment best prepares an evil soul for the after life Some argue that capital punishment is something like a spiritual medicine in the sense that it saves a man's soul from an evil life on earth. That is, capital punishment prevents a man from committing additional crimes and sins on earth, and so saves them from further damnation in the afterlife.
pro_2_4	The death penalty best fosters repentance	 The death penalty best fosters repentance Pro Death Penalty Webpage - "Death can actually be a peaceful and spiritually enlightening experience. Victims rights activist group 'Justice for All' presents an excellent example of my meaning below: 'The movie Dead Man Walking demonstrates a very good example of how just punishment and Jesus' message of love and redemption can work together: Had rapist/murderer Matthew Poncelet not been properly sentenced to death by the civil authority, he would not have met Sister Prejean, he would not have taken responsibility for his crimes and he would not have reconciled with God. Had Poncelet never been caught or had he only been given a prison sentence, his character makes it very clear that those elements would not have come together. Indeed, for the entire film and up until those last moments, prior to his execution, Poncelet was not fully truthful with Sister Prejean. His lying and manipulative nature was fully exposed at that crucial time. It was not at all surprising, then, that it was just prior to his execution that all of the spiritual elements have come together for his salvation, something no prison sentence is able to do. It was now, or never. Truly, it was his pending execution which finally led to his repentance. For Christians, the most crucial concerns of Dead Man Walking must be and are redemption and eternal salvation. And, for that reason, it may well be, for Christians, the most important pro-death penalty movie ever made.'"
pro_2_5	Death is more compassionate than life in prison	 Death is more compassionate than life in prison Patrick Henry: - "Is life so dear... as to be purchased at the price of chains and slavery? Forbid it, Almighty God! ...but as for me, give me liberty or give me death."[5]
con_2_1	The state does not honor the victim by emulating the murderer	 The state does not honor the victim by emulating the murderer William Brennan, former U.S. Supreme Court Justice. - "the state does not honor the victim by emulating his murderer."[6]
con_2_2	Capital punishment is void of compassion	 Capital punishment is void of compassion Jesus Chris interrupting a public execution of a woman for adultery. John 8:7, (NKJ) - "He who is without sin among you, let him throw a stone at her first." Jesus said this to point out that no man is sinless, and, therefore, that no man or woman can maintain a perfect moral high ground from which to severely punish another person with execution. Jesus' actions here are commonly interpreted to mean that a level of compassion, sympathy, and forgiveness is needed in any just law, and that a law that lacks such principles - such as capital punishment - is unjust.
con_2_3	Capital punishment does not allow for repenting as life imprisonment does	 Capital punishment does not allow for repenting as life imprisonment does John Paul II was one of the strongest advocates of life without parole over capital punishment, and applied the above rationale. He strongly upheld the Catholic principle of repentance as well as social forgiveness, in the tradition of the teachings of Jesus Christ, and maintained that any just legal order would need to apply these principles at the same time as penalizing criminals. He argued that life imprisonment was the best route to achieving all the objectives of redress, societal protection, repentance, and restitution simultaneously.[7].
con_2_4	Opposition to executions is not about sympathizing with murderers	 Opposition to executions is not about sympathizing with murderers Hugo Adam Bedau. "The Case Against The Death Penalty". American Civil Liberties Union. 1992 - "Opposition to the death penalty does not arise from misplaced sympathy for convicted murderers. On the contrary, murder demonstrates a lack of respect for human life. For this very reason, murder is abhorrent, and any policy of state-authorized killings is immoral."
con_2_5	Only love can conquer hatred and murderous acts	 Only love can conquer hatred and murderous acts Hector Black, whose daughter Patricia was murdered in Atlanta, Georgia in 2000, Victim Impact Statement delivered before the Fulton County (Georgia) Superior court, January 2002. - "I know that love does not seek revenge. We do not want a life for a life. Love seeks healing, peace and wholeness. Hatred can never overcome hatred. Only love can overcome hatred and violence. Love is that light. It is that candle that cannot be extinguished by all the darkness and hatred in the world. Judge Goger, that is the reason we are not asking for the death penalty."[8]
headline_3	Innocents: Is it wrong to be concerned about executing innocent people?
pro_3_1	Unquestioned guilt does not carry risk of wrongful execution.	Unquestioned guilt does not carry risk of wrongful execution. There is often no doubt of the guilt of an individual. The evidence may be obvious, with clear DNA testing, witnesses, and a guilty plea from the murderer. In these instances, there is no risk of executing the innocent, making this argument irrelevant. When there is room for doubt, this should be weighed into the equation. Therefore, the concerns of executing an innocent person must be approached on an individual basis.
pro_3_2	Mistaken convictions have not translated into wrongful executions	 Mistaken convictions have not translated into wrongful executions Michael Nevin, Freelance Journalist. "Death Decisions". The American Daily. 8 Apr. 2004 - "Several myths about the death penalty have been reported but continue to be debunked upon closer examination. The Liebman study at Columbia University, 'Broken System: Error Rates in Capital Cases, 1973-1995,' released its results in 2000 claiming serious flaws in the system, including a high 'error' rate. It was later revealed that the misleading 'error' included any issue requiring further review by a lower court, even when the court upheld the sentence. The 23-year study found no cases of mistaken executions. The numerous appeals in capital cases demonstrate the extraordinary adherence to due process. The fallacy that innocent people are being executed cannot be validated, and it is intellectually dishonest for opponents of the death penalty to perpetrate this myth. The death penalty in America is undoubtedly one of the most accurately administered criminal justice procedures in the world."
pro_3_3	Some risk of executing the innocent must be tolerated	 Some risk of executing the innocent must be tolerated G. Edward Griffin in The Great Prison Break - "If we design a legal system that will be so generous to the suspect that there is absolutely no possibility of unjustly convicting that one out of ten thousand defendants who, in spite of overwhelming evidence, is really innocent, then we have also designed a legal system that is utterly incapable of convicting the other 9999 about whose guilt there is no mistake."[9]
pro_3_4	DNA testing increases assurances of guilt; basis for executions	 DNA testing increases assurances of guilt; basis for executions Some argue that DNA testing has revealed the innocence of some that have been on Death Row, believing it indicates that the system is flawed. Yet, DNA testing cuts in favor of capital punishment, increasing assurances that the guilty are guilty and the innocent are innocent. If we can be more certain of guilt, we can be more certain that capital punishment is justified.
pro_3_5	Wrongful convictions can be fixed with better prosecutors	 Wrongful convictions can be fixed with better prosecutors Peter Bronson. "Death Penalty Guards What is Valued Most". International Herald Tribune. 8 Mar. 2001 - "American media, already biased against capital punishment, made a sensation of stories from Chicago about wrongful prosecution. The governor of Illinois declared a moratorium on executions. Most of the stories did not say, however, that the "innocence" was often technical. More than half the "innocent" defendants were later convicted. And malfeasance by prosecutors does not mean the death penalty is wrong, it means Illinois needs better prosecutors."
pro_3_6	Exoneration from death row is not proof of innocence	 Exoneration from death row is not proof of innocence When people are let out of death row, it is often because re-consideration found that there was not sufficient proof of guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. It is not necessarily because proof was found of innocence.
pro_3_7	Due process is all that is required, even if it risks wrongful execution	 Due process is all that is required, even if it risks wrongful execution The law does require only due process to justify the execution of the orders of a conviction. As long as the person is seen to have received due process in receiving a death penalty conviction, it is justifiable to execute them. It matters not if they are later determined to have been innocent; justice was carried out.
pro_3_8	Wrongful convictions do not mean that the system is wrong.	Wrongful convictions do not mean that the system is wrong. It is true that occasionally people are wrongly executed under the capital punishment. However, this does not mean that the death penalty should be abolished. Rather, it means that suspects should be scrutinized more closely.
con_3_1	Risk of executing innocent people undermines death penalty	 Risk of executing innocent people undermines death penalty  Since 1973, 123 in 25 US states have been released from death row with evidence of their innocence.[10] The Innocence project indicated that more than 150 people have been exonerated on the basis of DNA testing that concluded that they were innocent.[11] This appears to create a likelihood that many individuals have actually been executed that were innocent. This is too many, particularly when the executed are seen as innocent victims of the state. This is harmful to the state and the judicial system, and is sufficient evidence to shut down the practice.
con_3_2	Wrongful executions cannot be corrected, violating due process	 Wrongful executions cannot be corrected, violating due process Benjamin Weiser, NYTimes columnist. "A Legal Quest Against the Death Penalty". NYTimes. 2 Jan. 2005 - "DISPLAYING ABSTRACT - Judge Jed S Rakoff of Federal District Court in Manhattan discusses novel legal argument against capital punishment which he developed while overseeing death penalty case; interview; his 2002 ruling pointed to increasing number of DNA exonerations and wondered whether death penalty violates due process because executed prisoners cannot pursue claims of innocence."
con_3_3	Individuals are executed on murder charges whom deserved manslaughter	 Individuals are executed on murder charges whom deserved manslaughter "Thoughts on the death penalty". Retrieved 1 May 2008 - "The person convicted of the murder may have actually killed the victim and may even admit having done so but does not agree that the killing was murder. Often the only people who know what really happened are the accused and the deceased. It then comes down to the skill of the prosecution and defence lawyers as to whether there will be a conviction for murder or for manslaughter. It is thus highly probable that people are convicted of murder when they should really have only been convicted of manslaughter."
headline_4	Cruel and unusual? Is it wrong to consider the death penalty cruel and unusual?
pro_4_1	The death penalty is not cruel	 The death penalty is not cruel Chief Justice Earl Warren, Trop v. Dulles. - "Whatever the arguments may be against capital punishment, both on moral grounds and on grounds and in terms of accomplishing the purposes of punishment.... the death penalty has been employed throughout our history, and in a day when it is still widely accepted, it cannot be said to violate the conceptional concept of cruelty".[12]
pro_4_2	Capital punishment is not unusual (cruel and unusual)	 Capital punishment is not "unusual" ("cruel and unusual") Thomas R. Eddlem. "Ten anti-death penalty fallacies". The New American. 3 June 2002. - "The death penalty is not unusual. All of the nations of the world have had the death penalty on the law books throughout most of their recorded history, and the death penalty remains on the statute books of about half of the nations of the world. The death penalty was on the statute books of all the states of the U.S. when the Constitution was adopted. It is far more unusual to have no death penalty than to have a death penalty."
pro_4_3	Death penalty can/should inflict pain on murderers; due desert	 Death penalty can/should inflict pain on murderers; due desert Bob Greene. "Who Weeps for the Blood of the Weiler Family?". Chicago Tribune. 14 July 1999 - "When Allen Lee Davis got a nosebleed during his execution, it caused an uproar.  Few of those crying foul even knew what he had done to deserve execution." Some go beyond this, arguing that causing pain to the executed is justified as a proportional (due desert) response to the heinous crimes they've committed.
con_4_1	Mistakes in executions can be very cruel/unusual.	Mistakes in executions can be very cruel/unusual. It can be cruel and unusual. e.g, if someone is hanged, but strangle to death. Also, sometimes, criminals do not die, and are still taking the effects of the punishment, for example, being electrocuted, but still being alive, and taking the pain of the volts.
con_4_2	Executions are cruel and unusual punishment, violating human rights	 Executions are cruel and unusual punishment, violating human rights  The death penalty is severe in the damage it causes to the human body. Inflicting mortal damage on the human body, whether by electric chair or lethal injection, is equivalent to or even worse than torture, and violates basic human rights that are inherent and irrevocable. The death penalty is also cruel and torturous in the way that it inflicts psychological damage on convicts that wait on death row.
con_4_3	The death penalty violates the inalienable right to life	The death penalty violates the inalienable right to life.
headline_5	Families: Is capital punishment good for the families of victims?
pro_5_1	Executions give solace to families; killer will never kill again	 Executions give solace to families; killer will never kill again Jeff Jacoby, Boston Globe Columnist. "The feeble 'arguments' against capital punishment". Jewish World Review. 19 June 2001 - "The families of murder victims do not stop mourning when the killer dies, but for many, there is indeed a measure of solace in knowing that the monster who destroyed their loved one will never hurt anyone again. Abolishing executions certainly won't bring 'closure' to grieving relatives. On the contrary, it will deepen their torment, mocking them each time they remember that the person they loved is in the grave, while his killer continues to breathe."
pro_5_2	Executions take vengeance out of hands of loved ones	 Executions take vengeance out of hands of loved ones Jeff Jacoby - "It is up to the law to speak to them-to speak for all grief-stricken survivors confronted with the butchery of someone near and dear. Capital punishment says to them: We, the community, take your loss with the utmost seriousness. We know that you are filled with rage and pain. We know that you may cry for vengeance, may yearn to strangle the murderer with your bare hands. You are right to feel that way. But it is not for you to wreak retribution. As a decent and just society, we will do it. Fairly. After due process. In a court of law."[13]
pro_5_3	Loved ones should not have to support a killer in prison	 Loved ones should not have to support a killer in prison "The Death Penalty: Morally Defensible?". Casey's Critical Thinking - Take, for example, a murderer who took the life of a teenager. The parents of the victim will be among the taxpayers that pay for his meals and his cable television. Should he choose to take advantage of college courses the prison may offer, the parents of the victim will be indirectly financing those expenses as well. Nothing could be further from justice. It is of this type of situation that the abolitionist approves. Somewhere along the line, their priorities have been turned upside down.
pro_5_4	Can any one say that the people who hit the twin towers should be let free.	Can any one say that the people who hit the twin towers should be let free. Punishment is to create fear among the likes who are in line to do this kind of criminal acts.
con_5_1	Capital punishment does not bring closure to families	 Capital punishment does not bring "closure" to families Larry Fitzgerald, Spokeswoman for Texas Department of Criminal Justice. - "With an execution, everyone is a victim. I never believed any of that crap about closure."[14]
con_5_2	The death penalty does not bring back a loved one	 The death penalty does not bring back a loved one -- Sharon Borcyzewski, whose daughter was murdered in 1997, Arizona Republic, 12 Apr. 2004. - "The assumption is all too often made that all murder-victim family members want the death penalty. The horrible reality for those of us who have lost loved ones to homicide is that nothing that happens to their murderers is going to bring our loved ones back."[15]
con_5_3	The death penalty does not honor the memory of a loved one	 The death penalty does not honor the memory of a loved one Jennifer Bishop, whose sister Nancy Bishop Langert and her husband Richard Langert were murdered in 1990. - "Our sister Nancy and her husband Richard were a young couple expecting their first child when they were shot to death in their home. They loved and valued life; our sister was carrying life within her when she died a terrifying and brutal death. Her last act as she was dying was to write a message of love in her blood. We can't imagine making the death of another human being her memorial."
con_5_4	The death penalty harms the family of the executed	 The death penalty harms the family of the executed Theodore Roosevelt, Theodore Roosevelt, An Autobiography - "almost any criminal, however brutal, has usually some person, often a person whom he has greatly wronged, who will plead for him. If the mother is alive she will always come, and she cannot help feeling that the case in which she is so concerned is peculiar, that in this case a pardon should be granted. It was really heartrending to have to see the kinfolk and friends of murderers who were condemned to death, and among the very rare occasions when anything governmental or official caused me to lose sleep were times when I had to listen to some poor mother making a plea for a criminal so wicked, so utterly brutal and depraved, that it would have been a crime on my part to remit his punishment."[16]
headline_6	Modern society: Is capital punishment appropriate in modern society?
pro_6_1	It is acceptable to give a person the job of executing another.	It is acceptable to give a person the job of executing another. Some argue that it is cruel to delegate the task of execution; however, it is perfectly acceptable if the executioner opted for the job. While it is indeed unfair to pressure someone into becoming an executioner, claiming that "it is wrong to give a person the job of executing another" is not a reasonable argument.
pro_6_2	Capital punishment is not barbaric; it is often a civilized punishment	 Capital punishment is not barbaric; it is often a civilized punishment Charles Colson. "Preserving the Dignity of Man. The Case for Capital Punishment". Prison Fellowship Ministries. 2001 - "Why is it barbaric to require that one who violently steals the life of an innocent (or 168 innocents) not be allowed to keep his own? Where is the moral tradition that prescribes life for mass-murderers? How can it be civilizing to tell the world's worst people that no matter no matter how many victims they butcher, no matter what cruelty they inflict on others, the worst that will happen to them is that they will go to prison? Those are questions that abolitionists never answer."
pro_6_3	Modern states regulate executions, unlike barbaric executions elsewhere	 Modern states regulate executions, unlike barbaric executions elsewhere Thomas R. Eddlem. "Ten anti-death penalty fallacies". The New American. 3 June 2002 - "The arbitrary use of capital punishment in totalitarian societies argues for ensuring that government never abuses this power; it does not argue against the principle of capital punishment, which, in a free society, is applied justly under the rule of law."
con_6_2	The death penalty is uncharacteristic of a decent society	 The death penalty is uncharacteristic of a decent society Abe Fortas, former U.S. Supreme Court Justice - "Why, when we have bravely and nobly progressed so far in the recent past to create a decent, humane society, must we perpetuate the senseless barbarism of official murder?"[17]
con_6_3	Executions characterize oppressive, undemocratic countries	 Executions characterize oppressive, undemocratic countries deathpenalty.org - "The USA is keeping company with notorious human rights abusers. The vast majority of countries in Western Europe, North America and South America -- more than 105 nations worldwide -- have abandoned capital punishment. The United States remains in the same company as Iraq, Iran, and China as one of the major advocates and users of capital punishment."[18]
con_6_4	Killing in any form victimizes all of humankind	 Killing in any form victimizes all of humankind [19] John Donne (1572-1631), a Jacobean poet and preacher. "Meditation XVII: No man is an island...". 1624 - "All mankind is of one author, and is one volume; when one man dies, one chapter is not torn out of the book, but translated into a better language; and every chapter must be so translated...As therefore the bell that rings to a sermon, calls not upon the preacher only, but upon the congregation to come: so this bell calls us all: but how much more me, who am brought so near the door by this sickness....No man is an island, entire of itself...any man's death diminishes me, because I am involved in mankind; and therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee." In other words, the death of a fellow human kills a part of all of us, and, therefore, the death penalty kills a part of all of us.
con_6_5	An eye for an eye makes the whole world blind	 "An eye for an eye makes the whole world blind" - Mahatma Ghandi. In other words, if we insist on holding to an ideology of punishing a crime with proportional harm and suffering to that which was inflicted on victims, we will all lose sight of the real solution to our problems, which is compassion and love.
con_6_6	Society is judged by how it treats prisoners; executions fail test	 Society is judged by how it treats prisoners; executions fail test Oscar Wilde - "One is absolutely sickened, not by the crimes that the wicked have committed, but by the punishment that the good have inflicted."[20]
con_6_7	It is wrong to give a person the job of executing another person	It is wrong to give a person the job of executing another person.
headline_7	Crime: Does capital punishment help protect the public and deter crime?
pro_7_1	Capital punishment has a deterrent effect on criminal activities	 Capital punishment has a deterrent effect on criminal activities As a deterrent to others, it depends on how effectively the death penalty is applied; in the USA where less than 1% of murderers are executed, it is difficult to assess the true effect of deterrence. But for example, a 1985 study (Stephen K. Layson, University of North Carolina) showed that 1 execution deterred 18 murders.
pro_7_2	Capital punishment is 100% effective in preventing a murderer from killing again	 Capital punishment is 100% effective in preventing a murderer from killing again. There are many instances in which released, paroled, or escaped murderers have gone on to kill again. Capital punishment eliminates this risk. In this way, capital punishment is important to ensuring that murderers will never kill again, and in protecting innocent citizens.
pro_7_3	Criminals fear death and the death penalty	 Criminals fear death and the death penalty Pro Death Penalty Webpage - Abolitionists also hold the notion that criminals do not fear death because they do not take time to think about the consequences of their acts. If that were true, then I wonder how police officers manage to arrest criminals without killing them. When a policeman holds a criminal at gunpoint and tells him to get on the ground, the criminal will comply fully in the vast majority of of these cases. Why would they do that unless they were afraid of the lethal power of the gun? It is because regardless of what abolitionists claim, criminals are not immune to fear! It is a common misconception to believe that fear is a thought process that has to be worked out with a piece of paper. It's not! It is an instinct that automatically kicks in when one is faced with lethal force! The examples below should confirm that point.
pro_7_4	The death penalty helps protect inmates and prison guards	 The death penalty helps protect inmates and prison guards Life in prison without parole does not protect everyone from a murderer. Instead, it puts fellow inmates as well as prison guards in jeopardy of being assaulted or murdered. This is particularly true when a prisoner calculates that their life is hopeless and that their punishment could not get any worse, so why not boundlessly murder?
pro_7_5	The death penalty deters crime only if it is a certainty	 The death penalty deters crime only if it is a certainty When the death penalty is a 100% assured punishment for certain crimes, it has a strong deterrent effect. When it is a possible, "maybe" punishment, it has a much less certain deterrent effect. In the United States, few states have established capital punishment as a 100% certain punishment, with it generally being a very rare and arbitrary practice. This is one of the reasons why its deterrent effect is unclear in the states, and why US-focused studies (used frequently by anti-death penalty advocates) are less credible in determining the real deterrent effect of capital punishment. Looking to cases around the world where it is a certainty show a closer causality between capital punishment and crime-deterrence.
pro_7_6	The death penalty is a just means of protecting society	 The death penalty is a just means of protecting society Steven Farrell, professor of political economy at George Wythe College. "A Conservative Case for the Capital Punishment". 18 Mar. 2005 - "The legitimate role of government involves the protection of life, liberty and property. Just as the role of the government is to raise an armed force and rain down deadly force upon a bloodthirsty invading army, so also the government is duty bound to inflict death upon the man who chooses to slaughter fellow citizens in their own backyards. Few, if any, object to the use of deadly force against an invading army. Yet those invading soldiers, ordered to fight and likely whipped up by propaganda to go into battle, are far less deserving of death than the assailant who has been proven guilty and convicted in a court of law, by a jury of his peers, of shedding the innocent blood of his neighbor – and this of his own free will. Yet we do and must condone war in such situations. Governments must protect life. This is no less true regarding individual life."
pro_7_7	Deterrence is not a necessary pillar of the case for the death penalty	 Deterrence is not a necessary pillar of the case for the death penalty Thomas R. Eddlem. "Ten anti-death penalty fallacies". The New American. 3 June 2002 - "Death penalty opponents love to assume that the principal purpose for capital punishment is deterrence, possibly realizing it is a perfect straw argument. Tangible proof of deterrence alone is not a valid reason for capital punishment (or any other form of punishment, for that matter), nor is it the main rationale employed by astute death penalty advocates. As Christian writer C.S. Lewis observes, '[deterrence] in itself, would be a very wicked thing to do. On the classical theory of punishment it was of course justified on the ground that the man deserved it. Why, in Heaven's name, am I to be sacrificed to the good of society in this way?-unless, of course, I deserve it.' Inflicting a penalty merely to deter -- rather than to punish for deeds done -- is the very definition of cruelty. A purely deterrent penalty is one where a man is punished -- not for something that he did -- but for something someone else might do. Lewis explained the logical end of this argument: 'If deterrence is all that matters, the execution of an innocent man, provided the public think him guilty, would be fully justified.'" Men should be punished for their own crimes and not merely to deter others. That said, the death penalty undoubtedly does deter in some cases. For starters, those executed will no longer be around to commit any more crimes."
pro_7_8	Executions punish the guilty so can't encourage killing the innocent	 Executions punish the guilty so can't encourage killing the innocent Thomas R. Eddlem. "Ten anti-death penalty fallacies". The New American. 3 June 2002 - "If capital punishment teaches that it's permissible to kill, do prison sentences teach that it's permissible to hold someone against his will, and do fines teach that it's permissible to steal? In actuality, this fallacy confuses killing the innocent with punishing the guilty. To punish the guilty via the death penalty is not to condone the shedding of innocent blood. Just the opposite, in fact, since capital punishment sends a strong message that murder and other capital crimes will not be tolerated."
pro_7_9	Capital punishment protects more innocents than it does accidentally take the life of innocent convicts.	Capital punishment protects more innocents than it does accidentally take the life of innocent convicts. While it is possible that an innocent person may be executed through capital punishment, more innocent people have been killed by released, paroled or escaped murderers than innocent people executed. If a society chooses not to execute its most dangerous members, it risks these people killing again. The risk of innocent people being killed exists on both sides of the topic. It is wrong for the affirmative to assert that the risk of innocent lives being lost exists only when a society uses the death penalty. It would be difficult if not impossible to determine whether more innocent lives are risked on either side of this topic. Unless the affirmative could prove that a society that employs the the death penalty will always end up killing more innocent people than it saves, the death penalty cannot be said to be inherently immoral. So long as a just society reasonably believes that using the death penalty will protect human lives and is shown no evidence to the contrary, it could justly use the death penalty.
pro_7_10	Deterrent of capital punishment varies across the states.	Deterrent of capital punishment varies across the states.-"on average, the states where capital punishment deters murder execute many more people than do the states where capital punishment incites crime or has no effect.Using various statistical techniques, I show that a threshold number of executions for deterrence exists, which is approximately nine executions during the sample period. In states that conducted more executions than the threshold, executions, on average,deterred murder. In states that conducted fewer executions than the threshold, the average execution increased the murder rate or had no effect."
pro_7_11	It is impossible to determine that deterrence is not working	 It is impossible to determine that deterrence is not working John Stuart Mill, in a speech in favor of capital punishment - "As for what is called the failure of death punishment, who is able to judge of that? We partly know who those are whom it has not deterred; but who is there who knows whom it has deterred, or how many human beings it has saved who would have lived to be murderers if that awful association had not been thrown round the idea of murder from their earliest infancy?"[21]
con_7_1	What's a detterant?	What's a detterant?Many former death row inmates along with murderers testified that before, during, and after the crime, they didn't think or even consider the death penalty. They never thought about the death penalty as a punishment to their crimes. Then how could people say that it serves as a detterant when the criminals never even considered it?
con_7_2	Life in prison deters crime/murder as well as the death penalty	 Life in prison deters crime/murder as well as the death penalty Archbishop Charles J. Chaput. "Justice, Mercy, and Capital Punishment". 2005 - "The Catechism of the Catholic Church explains it in these words: If 'non-lethal means [such as life without parole] are sufficient to defend and protect people’s safety from the aggressor [i.e., the convicted murderer], authority [should] limit itself to such means, as these are more in keeping with the concrete conditions of the common good and more in conformity with the dignity of the human person'. (2267). John Paul II, writing in The Gospel of Life, stressed that 'the nature and extent of the punishment [for capital crimes] must be carefully evaluated and decided upon, and ought not to go to the extreme of executing the offender except in cases of absolute necessity; in other words, when it would not be possible otherwise to defend society. Today however, as a result of steady improvements to the organization of the penal system, such cases are very rare, if not practically non-existent' (no. 56). In modern industrialized states, killing convicted murderers adds nothing to anyone’s safety. It is an excess. It cannot be justified except in the most extraordinary conditions."
con_7_3	Capital punishment does not deter crime	 Capital punishment does not deter crime Jeffrey Fagan, Columbia Law Professor. "Deterrence and the Death Penalty: A Critical Review of the New Evidence". Testimony to the New York State Assembly Standing Committee on Codes and other committees on the Future of Capital Punishment in the State of New York. 21 Jan. 2005 - "These new studies [that claim a new evidence supports the conclusion that capital punishment has a positive deterrent effect] are fraught with technical and conceptual errors: inappropriate methods of statistical analysis, failures to consider all the relevant factors that drive murder rates, missing data on key variables in key states, the tyranny of a few outlier states and years, and the absence of any direct test of deterrence. These studies fail to reach the demanding standards of social science to make such strong claims, standards such as replication and basic comparisons with other scenarios. Some simple examples and contrasts, including a careful analysis of the experience in New York State compared to others, lead to a rejection of the idea that either death sentences or executions deter murder."
con_7_4	Deterrent-effect of executions is too controversial to justify policy.	"Deterrent-effect" of executions is too controversial to justify policy. It is not proper to conclude that more executions cause higher crime rates with the limited information available. At a minimum, the issue is too contested to base any policies on the conclusion that the death penalty "deters crimes".
con_7_5	Executions have a brutalizing social effect that can increase crime	 Executions have a brutalizing social effect that can increase crime Capital punishment has a "brutalizing effect" that increases the willingness of criminals to take life.[22] If state-sanctioned killings are occurring, might an individual feel more justified in murdering another person? If governments of men can take the power of life-and-death into their hands, might this make a man more comfortable with also taking that power into his own hands?
con_7_6	Higher execution rates may actually increase violent crime rates:	Higher execution rates may actually increase violent crime rates: California averaged 6 executions a year from 1952 to 1967, and had twice the murder rate than the period from 1968 until 1991 when there were no executions. In New York, from 1907 to 1964, months immediately following an execution showed a net increase of two murders - an average over a 57-year period.
con_7_7	The ends (deterrence) should not justify means (capital punishment)	 The ends (deterrence) should not justify means (capital punishment) It is unacceptable to justify capital punishment on the idea that it will produce a desirable social end, such deterrence. This is an example of the ends justifying the means and is unacceptable, as it could be used to justify, for instance, crucifixions in order to deter crime. More broadly, it is important not to bring utilitarian, practical considerations into a debate about life and death.
con_7_8	Using death penalty to fight crimes distracts from underlying problems	 Using death penalty to fight crimes distracts from underlying problems Bedau/ACLU. "The Case Against the Death Penalty". 1992 - "Reliance on the death penalty obscures the true causes of crime and distracts attention from the social measures that effectively contribute to its control. Politicians who preach the desirability of executions as a weapon of crime control deceive the public and mask their own failure to support anti-crime measures that will really work."
con_7_9	The death penalty denies the opportunity to study murderers to prevent future ones.	The death penalty denies the opportunity to study murderers to prevent future ones. It is important that scientists be able to study murderers to determine what drives them to perform such heinous acts. If society has a better understanding of the causes of murderous rages, it should be better able to prevent them in the future. Capital punishment prevents this research from occurring.
con_7_10	Executions contradict strategy of sensitivity to urban neighborhoods	 Executions contradict strategy of sensitivity to urban neighborhoods Daniel F. Conley, Suffolk County District Attorney, Boston Globe. 19 Sept. 2003. - "I do not believe the death penalty is a deterrent or appropriate punishment for inner-city homicide. The death penalty runs counter to the strategies for preventing and prosecuting urban crime -- which include sensitivity to the neighborhoods we serve -- that have proven successful in Boston over the last decade."[23]
headline_8	Implementation: Is capital punishment implemented consistently and fairly?
pro_8_1	Capital punishment should be based on principle, not implementation.	Capital punishment should be based on principle, not implementation. Some of the main criticisms of capital punishment are that innocent convicts may be executed and that the form of execution may be faulty and cause the convict excessive pain. Yet, these criticisms are simply a matter of implementation, which can be improved; they are not a matter of the basic principles of justice surrounding capital punishment.
pro_8_2	Race is not a significant factor in capital punishment cases	 Race is not a significant factor in capital punishment cases Michael Nevin, San Francisco based columnist. "Death Decisions". 8 Apr. 2004 - "The issue of race has been cited by critics, who complain that minorities are unfairly chosen for death sentences. According to the U.S. Bureau of Justice Statistics, since the death penalty was reinstated by the Supreme Court in 1976, white inmates have made up more than half of those under sentence of death. In 2002, 71 persons in 13 states were executed: 53 were white and 18 were black. The Cornell University study found that African Americans represented 41.3% of condemned inmates while they committed 51.5% of homicides."
pro_8_3	Any discrimination in capital punishment cases can be corrected	 Any discrimination in capital punishment cases can be corrected Instances of discrimination in capital punishment cases does not mean capital punishment is wrong. Rather, it would simply show that the judicial system is acting with bias. Yet, it would be unnecessary and inappropriate to ban capital punishment on these grounds. The problem should be solved by reforms that would ensure that the judiciary is not discriminating.
con_8_1	Capital punishment is too often the decision of a single authority.	Capital punishment is too often the decision of a single authority. Because Capital Punishment is resolute and irreconcilable, its application is either reserved for extremities, or for judicial statements regarding the severity of the law concerned. Thus, it may be either used exceedingly sparingly or overtly. Any sentence that welds such influential decision changing power cannot possibly be applied equally and fairly across all Judges/Juries deciding the sentence. As such, it should be removed as sentence the court has over the people.
con_8_2	The death penalty is often motivated by discrimination	 The death penalty is often motivated by discrimination -- Steward F. Hancock, former associate judge of New York's  Court of Appeals. - "As a matter of common sense, one would have to conclude, as the court in Massachusetts did, that since racial prejudice affects the death sentencing systems throughout the United States and since it has affected death sentencing under the previous statute, it will affect death sentences under the present statute as well."
con_8_3	Capital punishment is excercised irregularly and arbitrarily	 Capital punishment is excercised irregularly and arbitrarily US Supreme Court Justice William J. Brennan, Furman v Georgia, 1972 - "When a country of over 200 million people inflicts an unusually severe punishment no more than 50 times a year, the inference is strong that the punishment is not being regularly and fairly applied.'"[24]
con_8_4	The poor are unfairly vulnerable to capital punishment	 The poor are unfairly vulnerable to capital punishment The poor are less able to afford a good lawyer that will defend their interests. For this reason, their defense is generally weaker, and they are more susceptible to capital punishment convictions. It is also true that the poor are likely to suffer from certain biases that make their conviction more likely.
con_8_5	Overburdened courts cut-corners on death penalty cases	 Overburdened courts cut-corners on death penalty cases Stephen Reinhardt, U.S. Court of Appeals, 9th Circuit, dissenting in the decision to allow Thomas Thompson to be executed in California; Reinhardt, S.: "The Supreme Court, The Death Penalty, and the Harris Case" (1992) - "We are presently barely able to handle our current caseload properly .... We are always looking for new fast-track procedures -- which means less careful, less thorough review of cases on the merits. ... [Soon] not only will we not be able to handle those death penalty cases properly, but we will not, in all likelihood, be able to handle any of our cases in a manner that is consistent with the standards that have traditionally marked the federal courts."[25]
con_8_6	The state should simply not be involved in killing people	The state should simply not be involved in killing people.
headline_9	Public opinion: Do publics support capital punishment and should they be heeded?
pro_9_1	Majority of Americans support the death penalty	 Majority of Americans support the death penalty "Majority of Americans favor death penalty: poll". Reuters. 9 Jun 2007
pro_9_2	Public calls for capital punishment must be met to uphold justice	 Public calls for capital punishment must be met to uphold justice If a public demands capital punishment, and yet a government does not deliver it, the public will likely feel that justice has not been served, which is highly socially damaging. One of the risks is that a public rejects the legitimacy of their judicial system and becomes more prone to flaunting its laws.
pro_9_3	Rejecting calls for capital punishment risks inciting vigilante justice	 Rejecting calls for capital punishment risks inciting vigilante justice If the public will for capital punishment is consistently rejected by a government, elements of the public may feel that they need to uphold justice themselves, leading to vigilante justice.
pro_9_4	Death penalty popular internationally; politicians aren't listening	 Death penalty popular internationally; politicians aren't listening Joshua Micah Marshall. "Death in Venice. Europe's death-penalty elitism". The New Republic. 31 Jul. 2001. - "opinion polls show that Europeans and Canadians crave executions almost as much as their American counterparts do. It's just that their politicians don't listen to them."[26]
con_9_1	Public opinion is not necessarily right	Public opinion is not necessarily rightOK. Let's concede that public opinion does support the death penalty. However, public opinion isn't always right nor justified. The public disapproved of the Civil War of the US when it first occured, but looking from hindsight, it was one of the most important decisions in US history. Public opinion supported segregation during the time of the KKK, but racism is now illegal. Just when had public opinion has always been right?
con_9_2	Public opinion should not determine justice.	Public opinion should not determine justice. Justice is not supposed to be up to public opinion. On a matter that is so centrally about justice, public opinion should play a minimal role.
con_9_3	National hysteria can lead to unjust convictions and execution	National hysteria can lead to unjust convictions and execution As with the famous case of the Rosenburgs, capital punishment is sometimes carried out in response to national hysteria. Following public opinion, therefore, is a dangerous approach to capital punishment.
headline_10	Costs: Is capital punishment economically justifiable and cost-effective?
pro_10_1	Executions are no more costly than life in prison	 Executions are no more costly than life in prison Peter Bronson. "Death Penalty Guards What is Valued Most". International Herald Tribune. 8 Mar. 2001 - "I have heard the death penalty is too costly, that life without parole is cheaper. That is not true, once long-term prison costs of $25,000 a year are added up."
pro_10_2	Costs of capital punishment are irrelevant to justice	 Costs of capital punishment are irrelevant to justice New Jersey Senator John F. Russo (D). "Don't Abolish the Death Penalty, Fix it". Baltimore Sun. 1 Mar. 2007 - "It doesn't matter what it costs. The taking of a human life is something far too important to be influenced either way by costs. Similarly, it has been said that the death penalty diverts resources from services for victims. Whether or not the state has the death penalty, victims of violent crime can and should be given appropriate services to cope with their loss."
pro_10_3	Opponents of capital punishment are responsible for high costs.	Opponents of capital punishment are responsible for high costs. Opponents of the death penalty prefer to ignore the fact that they themselves are responsible for its high costs, by causing a never-ending succession of appeals.
pro_10_4	Capital punishment relieves strains on over-populated prisons.	Capital punishment relieves strains on over-populated prisons. Prisons in many countries are over-crowded and under-funded, and this problem is made worse by life sentences or delayed death sentences for murderers. Many of the costs of over-crowding of prisons are intangible, or they accrue to the prisoners themselves in jails and prisons who are unfairly harmed by the conditions.
pro_10_5	Why should taxpayers bear costs of supporting a murderer for a lifetime?	Why should taxpayers bear costs of supporting a murderer for a lifetime? Even if the costs of an execution are greater due to the appeal processes, there is a symbolic difficulty with taxpayers paying to fully support the ongoing life of a murderer.
con_10_1	Capital punishment costs more than life without parole	 Capital punishment costs more than life without parole Hugo Adam Bedau, Fletcher Professor of Philosophy at Tufts University and writing for the ACLU. "The Case Against the Death Penalty". 1992 - "Considerable delay in carrying out the death sentence is unavoidable, given the procedural safeguards required by the courts in capital cases. Starting with empaneling the trial jury, murder trials take far longer when the death penalty is involved. Post-conviction appeals in death-penalty cases are far more frequent as well. All these factors increase the time and cost of administering criminal justice. The sobering lesson is that we can reduce such delay and costs only by abandoning the procedural safeguards and constitutional rights of suspects, defendants, and convicts, with the attendant high risk of convicting the wrong person and executing the innocent."
con_10_2	Capital punishment wastes time and energy and burdens courts	 Capital punishment wastes time and energy and burdens courts Hugo Adam Bedau. "The Case Against The Death Penalty". American Civil Liberties Union. 1992 - "Capital punishment wastes resources. It squanders the time and energy of courts, prosecuting attorneys, defense counsel, juries, and courtroom and correctional personnel. It unduly burdens the system of criminal justice, and it is therefore counterproductive as an instrument for society's control of violent crime. It epitomizes the tragic inefficacy and brutality of the resort to violence rather than reason for the solution of difficult social problems."
con_10_3	Opponents of the death penalty are not to blame for the costs.	Opponents of the death penalty are not to blame for the costs. Capital cases cost more on average than housing a criminal for life because criminals are motivated to make frivolous appeals that delay their execution. Why should the taxpayer pay more per criminal when they could pay less?
con_10_4	There is no such thing as a frivolous appeal of the death penalty.	There is no such thing as a frivolous appeal of the death penalty. No criminal wants to die and any attempt to save a persons life can not be deemed frivolous, nor inappropriate simply on account of the costs. The mass amount of appeals created are to be blamed on the judicial system not the criminal.
headline_11	Pro-life: Is the pro-life, anti-abortionist consistent in supporting executions?
pro_11_1	The executed guilty cannot be equated with aborted unborn innocent	 The executed guilty cannot be equated with aborted unborn innocent Thomas R. Eddlem. "Ten anti-death penalty fallacies". The New American. June 3, 2002 - "A related fallacy is that the pro-lifer who defends the right to life of an unborn baby in the mother's womb, but who does not defend the right to life of a convicted murderer on death row, is being morally inconsistent. But there is no inconsistency here: The unborn baby is innocent; the convicted murderer is not. It is the proabortion/anti-death penalty liberal who is morally inconsistent, since he supports putting to death only the innocent.
con_11_1	Pro-life anti-abortionists inconsistently support the death penalty.	Pro-life anti-abortionists inconsistently support the death penalty. How can you be pro-life in one instance (abortion) and pro-death in another instance (death penalty)? This is a very common position of many conservatives, and is inconsistent. If life is too dignified to be taken in the case of abortion shouldn't it also be too dignified to take in the case of capital punishment? While pro death penalty advocates defend themselves by saying that murderers are guilty, not innocent, and forgo their right to life, there are reasons why this is a faulty argument. The problem is that they talk in the abortion debate about a fetus having a "right to life". If such a "right to life" exists, it must be a fundamental, inalienable right. Yet, pro-death penalty advocates argue that it is alienable or conditional upon whether a person commits certain crimes. This is wrong, a "right to life" can never be taken away, it is innate.
headline_12	Rehabilitation: Are retributive executions superior to notions of rehabilitation?
pro_12_1	Capital punishment is reserved for those beyond rehabilitation.	Capital punishment is reserved for those beyond rehabilitation. Some individuals are simply evil. They have no prospects for being rehabilitated. Their execution is a completely appropriate in this regard.
con_12_1	By executing criminals society rules out the possibility of rehabilitation and productivity	 By executing criminals society rules out the possibility of rehabilitation and productivity Killers may repent of their crime, serve a sentence as punishment, and emerge as a reformed and useful member of society. One of the most cited examples of this (provided on the argument page) is Tookie Williams, a reformed and socially productive former Cript murderer.
headline_13	International law: Is the death penalty legal under international law?
pro_13_1	Universal Declaration of Human Rights allows for death penalty	 Universal Declaration of Human Rights allows for death penalty Pro Death Penalty Webpage - "Abolitionists interpret from Article 3 in that [Universal Declaration of Human Rights] to proclaim each person's right to protection from deprivation of life, especially murderers! And they also point to Article 5, which states that no one shall be subjected to cruel or degrading punishment. From this, abolitinists self-righteously declare that the death penalty violates both of these rights. But in fact, nowhere in that declaration is the DP specifically condemned as a human rights violation!
con_13_1	United Nations opposes the death penalty	 United Nations opposes the death penalty Kofi Annan, Secretary General of the United Nations. - "The U.N. does not support death penalty. In all the courts we have set up (U.N. officials) have not included death penalty".[27]
con_13_2	The European Union opposes the death penalty	 The European Union opposes the death penalty Brian Cowen, Irish Minister for Foreign Affairs, Politics, 4/22/2004. - "Ireland along with our EU partners considers that the abolition of the death penalty contributes to the enhancement of human dignity and the progressive development of human rights. This position is rooted in our belief in the inherent dignity of all human beings and the inviolability of the human person. The European Union favours the universal abolition of capital punishment, and we work towards this goal in our relations with third countries."[28]
headline_14	US law: Is capital punishment justifiable under US law?
pro_14_1	5th amendment of US Constitution allows for executions	 5th amendment of US Constitution allows for executions It states: "No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a Grand Jury, except in cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the militia, when in actual service in time of War or public danger; nor shall any person be subject for the same offense to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb; nor shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation."[29]
pro_14_2	US Founding Fathers approved of death penalty	 US Founding Fathers approved of death penalty Pro Death Penalty Webpage - "I would imagine that the Founding Fathers could not have conceived of a world or nation without capital punishment. Indeed, in those days, there was absolutely no question of the value of public safety and personal responsibility. Had they foreseen the rise in violent crime we have had in the 70s, 80s, and into the 90s, they might have declared the death penalty in the preamble!"
headline_15	Religion: What are the religious arguments in this debate?
pro_15_1	Capital punishment is supported by the Bible	 Capital punishment is supported by the Bible There are many passages in the Bible that provide direct support to capital punishment. Some of them are (see the argument page for more in-depth coverage):
pro_15_4	Thou shall not kill means thou shall not murder; executions okay	 "Thou shall not kill" means "thou shall not murder"; executions okay Robert Meyer, Renew America Columnist. "Why Capital Punishment is Pro-Life". Renew America. 20 Sept. 2004 - "The commandment, 'Thou shalt not kill,' has been a source of great confusion. Most modern translations of the Bible have corrected the Hebrew translation to English rendering, 'Thou shalt commit no murder." This is an important distinction in the context of the death penalty, as the death penalty cannot be described as "murder". Therefore, the Bible does not forbid the death penalty.
pro_15_5	The expression an eye for an eye is a prescription for proportional justice and capital punishment	 The expression an "eye for an eye" is a prescription for proportional justice and capital punishment Robert Meyer, Renew America Columnist, "Why Capital Punishment is Pro-Life", Renew America. 20 Sept. 2004 - "The term 'an eye for an eye' in the scriptures, is not a directive for authority to seek vigilante vengeance, nor necessarily a mandate to recompense a literal eye-for-eye. This statement represents the biblical principle of Lex Talionis, that is, the crime must be proportional with the punishment. Often times in biblical law, the victim had rights in determining the precise punishment, up to a limit."
pro_15_6	Gen. 9.6, He who sheds the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed, helps justify capital punishment	 Gen. 9.6, "He who sheds the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed", helps justify capital punishment Robert Meyer, Renew America Columnist, "Why Capital Punishment is Pro-Life", Renew America. 20 Sept. 2004 - "Since biblical times, the death penalty has been deemed as a just punishment for capital offenses. 'He who sheds the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed,' (Gen.9:6). Notice that the scripture tells us that this is a duty delegated to mankind, not exclusively reserved for God. Specifically the state is delegated the duty of bearing the sword against the evil doer (Romans chapter13), as a derivative sovereign, until the final just judgement of God. There is no vigilantism or vengeance motive in the equation."
pro_15_7	Jesus' judge not does not apply to the death penalty	 Jesus' "judge not" does not apply to the death penalty
pro_15_8	The executed are not deprived of everything; they keep their souls.	The executed are not deprived of everything; they keep their souls. Capital punishment could only be the severest and most horrific punishment if it was able to deprive the executed of their souls and their after lives. But, it only deprives them of their bodies and lives on earth.
pro_15_9	Capital punishment best prepares an evil soul for the after life	 Capital punishment best prepares an evil soul for the after life Some argue that capital punishment is something like a spiritual medicine in the sense that it saves a man's soul from an evil life on earth. That is, capital punishment prevents a man from committing additional crimes and sins on earth, and so saves them from further damnation in the afterlife.
pro_15_10	Jesus called for the death penalty in some circumstances	 Jesus called for the death penalty in some circumstances
con_15_1	Religious arguments are irrelevant to the legality of Capital Punishment.	Religious arguments are irrelevant to the legality of Capital Punishment. The state cannot utilize religious arguments in interpreting the appropriateness of capital punishment. The separation of church and state prevents this. Therefore, while it may be interesting to consider these arguments, they should not be used one way or another in deciding the law.
con_15_2	Bible does not support the death penalty	 Bible does not support the death penalty
con_15_5	The Catholic Church has long opposed the death penalty	 The Catholic Church has long opposed the death penalty "A Culture of Life and the Death Penalty, A Statement of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops Calling for an End to the Death Penalty". 2005. - While complex, the teaching of the Universal Church is clear. It has developed over time and has been taught most powerfully in the words and witness of Pope John Paul II. Catholic teaching on the death penalty is clearly articulated in the encyclical The Gospel of Life, the Catechism of the Catholic Church, and the Compendium of the Social Doctrine of the Church. In Catholic teaching the state has the recourse to impose the death penalty upon criminals convicted of heinous crimes if this ultimate sanction is the only available means to protect society from a grave threat to human life. However, this right should not be exercised when other ways are available to punish criminals and to protect society that are more respectful of human life (ie. life without parole).
con_15_6	Most Catholics now reject the death penalty	 Most Catholics now reject the death penalty Catholic New Service, 2004 - "Catholic support for the use of the death penalty has dropped significantly—from over 70% of Catholics in the late 1990s to now less than half (48%)." (2005 Zogby Poll[32])
con_15_7	Bible's an eye for an eye does not support death penalty	 Bible's "an eye for an eye" does not support death penalty The United Methodist Church. "In Opposition to Capital Punishment". 2004 - "In spite of a common assumption to the contrary, 'an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth,' does not give justification for the imposing of the penalty of death. Jesus explicitly repudiated retaliation (Matthew 5:38-39), and the Talmud denies its literal meaning and holds that it refers to financial indemnities. Christ came among us and suffered death. Christ also rose to new life for the sake of all. His suffering, death, and resurrection brought a new dimension to human life, the possibility of reconciliation with God through repentance. This gift is offered to all without exception, and human life was given new dignity and sacredness through it. The death penalty, however, denies Christ's power to transform and restore all human beings. In the New Testament, when a woman having committed a crime was brought before Jesus, He persisted in questioning her accusers, so that they walked away (John 8:1-11)."
