title	Prisoners right to vote
question	Should people serving prison sentences be permitted to vote in elections?
headline_1	Democracy: Does prisoner voting uphold democratic practices?
pro_1_1	Allowing prisoner voting respects democratic practices.	Allowing prisoner voting respects democratic practices. Even governments can choose to rule that prisoners forfeit their right to vote or deserve the punishment of being deprived their vote, we should ask, "what's the higher road?". In terms of democracy, the higher road is to extend the vote to all citizens, including citizens that have commited crimes and are imprisoned (they are still citizens). This is the higher ground.
pro_1_2	Depriving prisoners a vote wrongly disenfranchises them	 Depriving prisoners a vote wrongly disenfranchises them The Canadian Supreme Court ruled that the infringement of prisoner voting rights did not meet the test for what's considered "reasonable." Justice McLachlin wrote, "The wholesale disenfranchisement of all penitentiary inmates, even with a two-year minimum requirement, is not demonstrably justified in our free and democratic society."[1]
pro_1_3	Unhelpful to ban voting by prisoners serving for 6 months	 Unhelpful to ban voting by prisoners serving for 6 months 
pro_1_4	Prisoners should have very right to make a decision based on their own morals .	Prisoners should have very right to make a decision based on their own morals . Part of the freedom of this country is the freedom to choose based on personal moral ethics. Several debates have been held discussing whether or not people should take a test to decide whether or not they are aware enough of the issues to make their choice. However this debate has been won a hundred times over based on the fact that people have the right to make decisions based on their own reasoning. If that reasoning is sufficient is a matter of personal opinion, something that has no place in our legal system.
con_1_1	Prisoner voting cheapens votes of citizens	 Prisoner voting cheapens votes of citizens Canadian Alliance MP Vic Toews said that the 2002 Canadian Supreme Court decision in favor of prisoner voting "cheapens everyone's vote."[2]
con_1_2	Prisoner voting would demean the entire electoral system.	Prisoner voting would demean the entire electoral system. The electoral system is based on a society's collective sense of respect for the law, citizenship, and democratic processes. These are precisely the values that felons have flaunted. In this way, offering them a right to vote demeans the entire spirit of the electoral system.
con_1_3	Prisoner voting would undermine the public's sense of justice	 Prisoner voting would undermine the public's sense of justice UK attorney general Dominic Grieve said: "If convicted rapists and murderers are given the vote it will bring the law into disrepute and many people will see it as making a mockery of justice".[3] Even worse, it would insult the victims of crime.
con_1_4	Felons have bad judgement, should not help elect reps	 Felons have bad judgement, should not help elect reps Tucker Carlson, MSNBC News Commentator. "The Situation with Tucker Carlson". June 26, 2006. - "Now why would we, as citizens, as non-felon citizens, want felons helping to pick our representatives. If you're a convicted felon, convicted of a violent crime, you have bad judgment. Why do we want people with that judgment picking our representatives?"[4]
headline_2	Rights: Do prisoners have a right to vote?
pro_2_1	Prisoners retain many rights, including the right to vote	 Prisoners retain many rights, including the right to vote We should respect their human rights and should infringe upon their liberty as little as possible, except for the protection of the public. 
pro_2_2	Prisoners have a right to express interests through voting	 Prisoners have a right to express interests through voting The needs of prisoners are currently not represented. Issues such as prison overcrowding and abuse by warders are not treated seriously as political issues, since those most directly affected cannot vote and the public generally has little interest in prisoners’ well-being. 
pro_2_3	Prisoners must be able to influence world they will re-enter.	Prisoners must be able to influence world they will re-enter. Prisoners should also have the opportunity to influence the formation of policy on healthcare, education, the environment and all the other issues that affect the world into which almost all of them will some day be released. 
pro_2_4	There is no state interest in denying prisoners a vote	 There is no state interest in denying prisoners a vote Depriving a citizen of a right requires a compelling state interest. But there is no solid one for depriving them of a right to vote. The primary purpose of sending a criminal to prison is to punish them and to protect society from their criminal acts. Depriving them of the right to vote cannot be said to be a serious part of either of these main reasons for sending a criminal to prison. Taking away someone's freedom of movement is sufficient punishment; depriving them of a vote is excessive punishment. Preventing them from committing another crime is sufficient protection for society; protecting society from a prisoner's vote/opinion is a rediculous notion. 
pro_2_5	We cannot assume that they do not wish to vote.	We cannot assume that they do not wish to vote. While many prisoners may not wish to vote we cannot assume this goes for the entire prisoner population. It is their right to have the option of voting and the choice of whether or not to use it.  
con_2_1	Voting is a privilege (not right) that criminals fairly lose.	Voting is a privilege (not right) that criminals fairly lose. The clearest indication that voting is a privilege and not a right is the fact that minors cannot vote. Therefore, it is perfectly reasonable for the state to deprive criminals of their voting privileges.
con_2_2	If minors have no right to vote neither should prisoners	 If minors have no right to vote neither should prisoners Not all citizens have the right to vote. Only trusted members of society have a right to vote. Indeed, minors are not yet fully trusted members of society, given that they are not yet mature enough. This is why they can't vote. With this precedent in mind, it is appropriate to conclude that prisoners should also not be able to vote. They have demonstrated that they are not responsible enough to vote. If this was deemed unreasonable, we would really have to re-do the voting age.
con_2_3	Only qualified citizens have a right to vote	 Only qualified citizens have a right to vote Alexander v Mineta, U.S. Supreme Court. October 16, 2000. - "The Equal Protection Clause does not protect the right of all citizens to vote, but rather the right of all qualified citizens to vote."[6]
con_2_4	Criminals forfeit the right to vote	 Criminals forfeit the right to vote When a citizen breaks the laws of the state, they forfeit many of the rights and protections of the state, including the right to vote.
con_2_5	Prisoners are unfit for society so unfit to vote	 Prisoners are unfit for society so unfit to vote UK Shadow home secretary Ann Widdecombe said in 2001, "The courts have ruled that convicted prisoners, many of them dangerous, cannot be allowed to take part in normal society. How, therefore, can it be sensible to give them a say in how that society should be run?"[7]
con_2_6	Prisoners lose freedom; what's problem with losing vote?	 Prisoners lose freedom; what's problem with losing vote? "Do Criminals Have The Right To Vote?" Thoughts on Freedom, Australian Libertarian Society - "If we are all agreed that convicted felons should have their right to liberty temporarily removed, then why are we so anxious about protecting their right to vote (a far lesser ‘right’ than liberty)?"
con_2_7	Most prisoners don't care about voting	 Most prisoners don't care about voting Jonathan Aitken. "Prisoners don't care about their right to vote". Telegraph. 15 Dec. 2006 - "I can offer some well-informed guesses about how my old cellmates in HMP Belmarsh might react to the news that their Christmas present from Brussels is to be a new right to put their crosses on ballot papers from behind bars. Indifference, incomprehension or dismissive expletives would be their likely responses." 
con_2_8	Prisoners’ interests are represented by NGOs and others	Prisoners’ interests are represented by NGOs and others. These entities ensure that prisoners are not ill-treated. Prisoners do not deserve any further representation.
con_2_9	Prisoners deserve voting privileges only when they act responsibly.	Prisoners deserve voting privileges only when they act responsibly. Prisoners can only be given the rights of members of society when they are deemed capable of acting as responsible members of society.
headline_3	Discrimination: Does depriving prisoners of a vote discriminate?
pro_3_1	Depriving prisoners a vote continues legacy of disenfranchisement	 Depriving prisoners a vote continues legacy of disenfranchisement Te-Ping Chen and Maggie Williams. "Keeping Felons from Voting". July 9, 2007 - "Last month, the New York State Assembly unanimously passed a bill expressing regret for New York’s role in the slave trade. The move was a recognition of the state’s history as much as it was an apology. “A lot of people don’t even think slavery happened here,” said its prime sponsor, Assemblymember Keith Wright of Manhattan.
con_3_1	Depriving prisoner vote disenfranchises only because more minorities are felons	 Depriving prisoner vote "disenfranchises" only because more minorities are felons  Edward Feser, Ph.D. Instructor, Pasadena City College. "Should Felons Vote?". City Journal. Spring, 2005. - "The frequently heard charge is that disenfranchising felons is racist because the felon population is disproportionately black. But the mere fact that blacks make up a lopsided percentage of the nation's prison population doesn't prove that racism is to blame. Is the mostly male population of the prisons evidence of reverse sexism? Of course not: men commit the vast majority of serious crimes - a fact no one would dispute - and that's why there are lots more of them than women behind bars. Regrettably, blacks also commit a disproportionate number of felonies, as victim surveys show. In any case, a felon either deserves his punishment or not, whatever his race. If he does, it may also be that he deserves disenfranchisement. His race, in both cases, is irrelevant."[8]
headline_4	Punishment: Is it wrong to punish prisoners by depriving vote?
pro_4_1	Depriving prisoners their vote exceeds judge's punishment	 Depriving prisoners their vote exceeds judge's punishment Voting Rights of Prisoners. Australian Democrats Action Plan. - "As part of their citizenship, convicted persons in detention should be entitled to vote. To deny them this is to impose an additional penalty on top of that judged appropriate by the court."
pro_4_2	A right to vote hardly diminishes a prisoner's sentence.	A right to vote hardly diminishes a prisoner's sentence. Even with the right to vote, more fundamental freedoms would continue to be deprived from a prisoner (most importantly, their physical freedom of movement). In general, therefore, offering the right to vote to prisoners hardly diminishes the principal forfeitures of these citizen-prisoners or the punishment they incur for their crimes. It is, therefore, an unnecessary and excessive punishment or forfeiture to deprive them of their right to vote.
pro_4_3	Depriving prisoners of a vote is simply mean spirited.	Depriving prisoners of a vote is simply mean spirited. Surely, we should punish criminals. But, depriving prisoners of the right to vote goes beyond reasonable punishment (physical imprisonment itself is very hard on a person) and into the realm of mean spiritedness. Particularly in societies where rehabilitation is an objective, such mean spiritedness is counter-productive.
con_4_1	Prisoners are rightly punished by denying their vote	 Prisoners are rightly punished by denying their vote They are shut away not only to protect society, but also to symbolise society’s disgust at their acts. Although prisoners are no longer executed in many jurisdictions, the idea of “civic death” is that they lose the rights of citizens without dying in a literal sense. Those who offend against the common good of society should have no right to contribute to the governance of society. They can only be readmitted to society, both physically and in terms of their rights, when they have made amends to society by serving their sentence.
headline_5	Rehabilitation: Does prisoner voting help in rehabilitation?
pro_5_1	Prisoner voting offers dignity, aids rehabilitation	 Prisoner voting offers dignity, aids rehabilitation This is essential if they are to avoid re-offending after being released. Denying prisoners the vote implies that they are sub-human: this damages their dignity and sense of self-worth, undermining efforts to help them control their behaviour. Arne Peltz, a lawyer defending Canada's inmates in the 2002 supreme court case on the matter, said, "There will be a little more dignity in prison and I think over time that will help reduce crime over the long term."
pro_5_2	Rehabilitation is main goal (not punishment); voting helps	Rehabilitation is main goal (not punishment); voting helps Rehabilitation is the main goal in the prison systems of modern, liberal democracies. Punishment is seen less and less as the objective of the prison system, or at least it is less important than rehabilitation. Therefore, if offering voting rights to prisoners helps in rehabilitation, this benefit outweights any concerns surrounding it "weakening the punishment of prison".  
pro_5_3	Voting offers prisoners a sense of citizenship, reintegration	 Voting offers prisoners a sense of citizenship, reintegration Voting encourages prisoners to take an interest in current affairs, which will aid their reintegration into society. Where prisoners are allowed to vote, they are usually required to vote in their home constituency, to avoid several hundred inmates in one jail causing a sudden swing in the constituency in which the jail is sited. This encourages them to take an interest in the particular community from which they came and into which they will probably be released.
con_5_1	Prisoner voting undermines punishment and so rehabilitation.	Prisoner voting undermines punishment and so rehabilitation. Rehabilitation should focus upon making prisoners realise and sincerely regret the effects of their actions. It should not aim to give them a feeling of dignity or the illusion that they are full members of society. 
con_5_2	Punishment, not rehabilitation, is the objective in prisons.	Punishment, not rehabilitation, is the objective in prisons. 
headline_6	Taxes: Does principle of no taxation without representation apply?
pro_6_1	The state is hypocritical in taxing prisoners but not giving them a vote.	The state is hypocritical in taxing prisoners but not giving them a vote. Prisoners are not treated as “civically dead” when it benefits the State: they are liable for taxation on any earnings and savings that they have. There should be no taxation without representation.
con_6_1	Few prisoners earn enough to be liable for taxation.	Few prisoners earn enough to be liable for taxation.
con_6_2	The right to vote does not follow from the obligation to pay taxes.	The right to vote does not follow from the obligation to pay taxes. In many countries, people start earning money and paying tax before they are old enough to vote (particularly if they leave school as soon as they are allowed to do so). This implies that the right to vote is given to those who can be expected to use it responsibly. Those convicted of serious enough crimes to be imprisoned have shown that they have no respect for society. They therefore cannot be trusted to vote responsibly in the interests of society. 
headline_7	Safety: Would prisoner voting maintain public safety?
pro_7_1	Denying prisoners the right to vote does not protect the public.	Denying prisoners the right to vote does not protect the public. It is, therefore, an unwarranted infringement upon the human rights of prisoners. 
con_7_1	Criminals, dangerous to society, are dangerous with vote	 Criminals, dangerous to society, are dangerous with vote UK Shadow home secretary Ann Widdecombe said in 2001, "The courts have ruled that convicted prisoners, many of them dangerous, cannot be allowed to take part in normal society. How, therefore, can it be sensible to give them a say in how that society should be run?"[9]
headline_8	Deterrence: Denying prisoners a vote does not deter crime?
pro_8_1	Prospect of losing voting rights does not deter crime	 Prospect of losing voting rights does not deter crime People are deterred from committing crimes by the prospects of their movement being restricted and of being separated from loved ones. The effectiveness of a sentence can be measured by how well it protects the public, how well it rehabilitates the offender, how well it reverses the effects of the crime committed and how well it deters future offending. Banning prisoners from voting is either counterproductive (i.e. in terms of rehabilitation) or has no positive effect. Other factors include the fact that those that commit crimes are less likely to vote in the first place, so it's not really a punishment to deprive them of a vote. Second, the low visibility of the fact that imprisonment entails the loss of voting rights means that few will even consider that their crime will lead to this consequence.
con_8_1	Denying felons a vote sends a strong message, deters crime	 Denying felons a vote sends a strong message, deters crime Banning prisoners from voting is one part of a package of measures that exclude prisoners from normal society, the most obvious of which are restrictions on movement, communication and employment. By itself, a ban on voting may have minimal deterrent effect. As part of this package of measures, however, it sends out a strong signal of society’s revulsion at those who commit crime, thereby discouraging lawbreaking.
headline_9	Consistency: Is banning prisoner voting arbitrary?
pro_9_1	Linking a ban on voting to imprisonment is arbitrary.	Linking a ban on voting to imprisonment is arbitrary. Many people who commit serious crimes are not sent to prison, because of their age, the effects upon their dependents or the likelihood that they will not re-offend. Others committing equivalent or lesser crimes, without these special circumstances, may be imprisoned. Even if it were ever right to deprive people of the vote as a punishment (the proposition arguments above would suggest this is never justified), this should not automatically be associated with imprisonment, but should be decided separately, as in France and Germany.
con_9_1	This is not an argument for letting all, or indeed any, prisoners vote.	This is not an argument for letting all, or indeed any, prisoners vote. The imposition of a prison sentence is a good general index of the seriousness of a crime, and those who have committed serious crimes should suffer “civic death”. Where people are exceptionally not imprisoned, they should be deprived of the right to vote for the period for which they would usually have been imprisoned.
headline_10	US law: Are voting rights for prisoners supported by US law?
pro_10_1	Prisoners are still citizens.	Prisoners are still citizens.It is common fact among government that the right to vote belongs to all legal aged citizens. While the opposing side may argue that criminals are not citizens one should remember that we continue to give them the right to an attorney and other such obvious inalienable rights. By doing this we recognize they are still citizens. And citizens have the right to vote.
con_10_1	14th amendment permits denying voting rights to criminals	 14th amendment permits denying voting rights to criminals Alex Kozinski, J.D. , Circuit Judge, U.S. 9th Circuit Court of Appeals. Dissent (PDF) in Farrakhan v. State of Washington. February 24, 2006 - "Unlike any other voting qualification, felon disenfranchisement laws are explicitly endorsed by the text of the Fourteenth Amendment. [...] They are presumptively constitutional. Only a narrow subset of them - those enacted with an invidious, racially discriminatory purpose - is unconstitutional."
con_10_2	Equal protection clause does not protect prisoner votes	 Equal protection clause does not protect prisoner votes Alexander v Mineta, U.S. Supreme Court. October 16, 2000. - "The Equal Protection Clause does not protect the right of all citizens to vote, but rather the right of all qualified citizens to vote."[10]
headline_11	International: Is there support for prisoner voting internationally?
pro_11_1	The European Court of Human Rights	The European Court of Human Rights overturned in 2001 a British law that prohibits prison inmates from voting. 
pro_11_2	Most liberal democracies extend voting rights to prisoners	 Most liberal democracies extend voting rights to prisoners "Voting Rights, Human Rights" New York Times. 14 Oct. 2005 - "The United States has the worst record in the democratic world when it comes to stripping convicted felons of the right to vote. Of the nearly five million people who were barred from participating in the last presidential election, for example, most, if not all, would have been free to vote if they had been citizens of any one of dozens of other nations. Many of those nations cherish the franchise so deeply that they let inmates vote from their prison cells."
pro_11_3	International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights supports prisoner voting	 International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights supports prisoner voting "Voting Rights of Prisoners". Australian Democrats Action Plan. - "Australia is a signatory to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, part of which provides that every citizen shall have the right to vote at elections under universal suffrage without a distinction of any kind on the basis of race, sex, etc or other status."
