title	Ban on laser pointers
question	Sould governments completely ban laser pointers?
headline_1	Problem: Are laser pointers currently a problem?
pro_1_1	Laser pointers have the capability to bring down aircraft and cause major accidents	 Laser pointers have the capability to bring down aircraft and cause major accidents Laser pointers have the capability, if pointed at aircraft, to bring them down and cause major aeroplane crashes. Because of the large number of laser attacks on aircraft in April, 2008, it is justified to ban them.
pro_1_2	Laser attacks are a growing threat to public safety	 Laser attacks are a growing threat to public safety There have been an increasing number of dangerous laser pointer attacks on aircraft, which can temporarily blind pilots. In March, 2008, a particularly troubling coordinated attack came from four sources on an Australian rescue helicopter. The general manager of the Australian and International Pilot's Assocaition, Peter Somerville, said, "With this latest incident, the level of organisation that has been demonstrated by the perpetrators means that I am sure those state governments will move and move quickly as they should. Previously, of course, we have just had single incidents but this represents a completely new level of threat."[1]
pro_1_3	Lasers have become more powerful and more affordable	 Lasers have become more powerful and more affordable Green lasers are more powerful and blinding to the human eye, and have become much cheaper over the years, dropping from prices of over $400 to around $50 more recently. This makes lasers more widespread and a greater potential threat.
pro_1_4	Pilots support laser pointer ban for airplane safety	 Pilots support laser pointer ban for airplane safety "Pilots back moves to ban laser pointers". The Age. March 31, 2008
pro_1_5	Lazer pointers are used in attacks on motorists.	Lazer pointers are used in attacks on motorists.
pro_1_6	Lazer attacks are often waged to cause eye damage.	Lazer attacks are often waged to cause eye damage.
con_1_1	Laser attacks on aircraft are rare and offenders are charged.	Laser attacks on aircraft are rare and offenders are charged. Laser attacks on aircraft are extremely rare. There have never been repeated laser offenders because all offenders have been charged with an illegal offence and will never attack again. Most airports have never reported any laser attacks on landing aircraft and only a few (particularly Sydney Airport) have reported them, although they are rare and do not happen regularly. Pointing lasers at aircraft is the only problem caused by laser pointers and these issues are illegal and uncommon. Lasers are not a huge problem and do not pose an immediate threat to the safety of people.
con_1_2	Laser attackers must be exceptional shots to blind pilots	 Laser attackers must be exceptional shots to blind pilots "Laser ban an 'overreaction'". ABC. 7 Apr. 2008 - "vision experts say people using the lasers to distract pilots would have to be good shots to make the beam temporarily blind the pilot."
con_1_3	Banning lasers mistreats technology, sets bad precedent	 Banning lasers mistreats technology, sets bad precedent  Movie visual effects designer Marco Nero said. "If you're going to treat technology that way … you're heading down the path to the Dark Ages."[2]
headline_2	Utility: Is there little usefulness to laser pointers?
pro_2_1	The majority of laser pointers are for illegal usage.	The majority of laser pointers are for illegal usage. Most laser pointers these days are purchased through the black market and are used improperly and/or illegally. They are not necessary for anything and are not needed for any reason. All laser pointers these days are unnecessary and most of them are used to cause trouble.
pro_2_2	There is no practical use of laser pointers that can't be replaced.	There is no practical use of laser pointers that can't be replaced. Laser pointers are completely unnecessary and are not need in today's society for any reason. All types of laser pointers can be replaced for legal, dimmer pointers and can still be used for the right reasons. These legal lasers cannot blind people and are not a danger to the public.
pro_2_3	Scientists and researchers can be exempted from laser ban	 Scientists and researchers can be exempted from laser ban "ACT Will Ban Laser Pointers". Photonics (Australia). 11 June 2008 - "The Federal Minister for Home Affairs, Bob Debus, has announced that from July 1 this year anyone seeking to import powerful laser pointers will be required to have an appropriate exemption. Certain professional, technical and scientific groups, including astronomers, academics and surveyors, will be exempt."
con_2_1	Laser pointers are in popular demand.	Laser pointers are in popular demand. Laser pointers are in very popular demand and sell easily at dear prices. Most people don't use them dangerously and they do have many uses. They are most commonly used to project light onto points in a business presentation. They are convenient to have for all sorts of reasons and in dim light they can easily be pointed to things. They are commonly used for many different reasons and their only use is certainly not just pointing them at landing aircraft.
con_2_2	Scientist that frequently use lasers oppose a ban	 Scientist that frequently use lasers oppose a ban "Laser ban an 'overreaction'". ABC. 7 Apr. 2008 - "News analysis Australian scientists have attacked the federal government ban on importing high-powered laser pointers as using a 'sledgehammer to crack a nut'."
con_2_3	Amateur astronomers use lasers to align telescopes.	Amateur astronomers use lasers to align telescopes.
con_2_4	Amateur astronomers use lasers to give lectures.	Amateur astronomers use lasers to give lectures. Lasers are used by astronomers to point into the night sky and give astronomy lessons.
con_2_5	Laser pointers are an important tool for lost hikers.	Laser pointers are an important tool for lost hikers. Lost hikers can use lasers to signal to airplanes for help. Banning them would eliminate this important safety tool.
con_2_6	Business people use lasers to give presentations.	Business people use lasers to give presentations.
con_2_7	Laser pointers are used in many movies.	Laser pointers are used in many movies.
con_2_8	Laser pointers are used by photographers and tour guides	Laser pointers are used by photographers and tour guides to point out flowers and animals at night.
headline_3	Punishment: Is jail time a suitable punishment for laser pointer use?
pro_3_2	The crime is very dangerous.	The crime is very dangerous. People using laser pointers inappropriately (eg. pointing them at low flying aircraft) is a serious problem. Pointing laser pointers at pilots temporarily blinds them and can cause the pilot to lose control of a low-flying aircraft and crash, killing many people. In places like Sydney, laser pointers have been a huge problem. Pilots have agreed that jail is a suitable punishment for improper use of laser pointers and it is. The use of them can cause serious accidents and that is why the NSW Government has banned them.
con_3_1	Possessing a laser pointer does not necessarily mean using it dangerously.	Possessing a laser pointer does not necessarily mean using it dangerously. Just because someone has a laser pointer, does not necessarily mean that they are going to use a dangerously. Most laser poitners are used sensibly. Jail time is not a suitable punishment for someone in possession of a laser pointer, if they use the laser pointer sensibly and responsibly, not causing any trouble.
con_3_2	Jail time is okay, but not up to 14 years in jail.	Jail time is okay, but not up to 14 years in jail. Currently in NSW, anyone caught with a laser pointer and without a permit can get a sentence of up to 14 years in jail. That is not a suitable punishment for not even doing anything dangerous. That is unfair.
headline_4	Vs. restriction: Is ban more sensical than restrictions?
pro_4_1	There will always be people breaking the restrictions.	There will always be people breaking the restrictions. With the usage of laser pointers only restricted, they are still legal to be in pocession of. With this law in place, people still point them at aircraft, temporarily blinding the pilot. We need to ban them altogether because restrcting them doesn't work.
pro_4_2	It is easy to catch people with laser pointers, but it's not easy to catch people using them improperly.	 It is easy to catch people with laser pointers, but it's not easy to catch people using them improperly. It is easy to catch people using laser pointers, or even just people possessing them, but the old law allowed possession of laser pointers, just as long as they were used proprerly. Before the law was in place, it was often very hard to catch laser offenders, and many of them got away with their crimes. Now it is much easier to catch laser users without permits.
con_4_1	Ban on lazers is an overreaction; regulation more fair	 Ban on lazers is an overreaction; regulation more fair "Laser ban an 'overreaction'". ABC. 7 Apr. 2008 - "Professor Hans Bachor, president of the Australian Optical Society, says the ban is an overreaction and researchers may be left to deal with the bureaucracy if it proceeds."
con_4_2	Many power lasers are already illegal	 Many power lasers are already illegal "Laser ban an 'overreaction'". ABC. 7 Apr. 2008 - "Greenhill says more powerful pointers are illegal and questions 'how putting a ban on something that is already illegal can help'."
con_4_3	There are many uses of laser pointers besides causing mischeif.	There are many uses of laser pointers besides causing mischeif. Pointing lasers at aircraft happpens rarely and only a small amount of laser users use them dangerously. Lasers have many different uses including games and pointing to things (eg. on a data projection). Instead of banning laser pointers, we should just restrict their use.
con_4_4	Laser pointers can be bought easily through the black market.	Laser pointers can be bought easily through the black market. There is no point totally banning laser pointers, and only in one state, because most laser pointers are purchased online, or through the black market. There is no point banning them because they will always be around. Restricting their usage is a far better solution to problems caused by laser pointers because there is no way of fully banning laser pointers. The law won't work anyway.
con_4_5	A laser ban entails a large bureaucracy for enforcement.	A laser ban entails a large bureaucracy for enforcement.
headline_5	Enforcement: Is a ban enforceable?
pro_5_1	The Government is working to stop black market laser sales.	The Government is working to stop black market laser sales. Now laser pointers are banned, the government is watching and making sure that no laser sales occur over the internet or black market.
con_5_1	Enforcing laser pointer ban is impossible	 Enforcing laser pointer ban is impossible New South Wales police spokesman Mike Gallacher said a ban would be impossible to enforce - "Creating another offence is useless if there is nobody there to actually enforce it. This Government talks tough and they say we're going to lock you up and all the rest of it, but the crooks know that their chances of being caught are slim."[3]
con_5_2	Blackmarket sales of laser pointers will undermine ban.	Blackmarket sales of laser pointers will undermine ban. It is impossible to completely and thoroughly wipe out laser pointers in an entire state. There are always people who will still buy through the black market and this is inevitable.
headline_6	Legitimacy: Are there no legitimate uses for laser pointers?
pro_6_1	There is no practical use of laser pointers that can't be replaced.	There is no practical use of laser pointers that can't be replaced. Laser pointers are completely unnecessary and are not need in today's society for any reason. All types of laser pointers can be replaced for legal, dimmer pointers and can still be used for the right reasons. These legal lasers cannot blind people and are not a danger to the public.
pro_6_2	There are enough alternatives to lasers for self defense.	There are enough alternatives to lasers for self defense. There are many alternatives to lasers for self-defense, such as mace, stun guns, knives and batons. While lasers may have some value as a self-defense tool, this value is easily replaceable.
con_6_1	Illegal use of lasers (like knives) does not justify ban	 Illegal use of lasers (like knives) does not justify ban The Consumer Affairs Ministry in Australia said in June 2008 that it considered lasers to be legitimate, and that attacks were considered "criminal misuse of the product".[4] Indeed, cars can also be used in murderous rampages, but they are not banned. Why laser?
con_6_2	Laser pointers are used widely be teachers and lecturers.	Laser pointers are used widely be teachers and lecturers. It is a lot easier for a university lecturer or teacher to simply sit down, talk about what's on the powerpoint or whiteboard, and point to things on the board using their laser pointer. Most laser pointers uses are not harmful and legitimate. Lasers can save time and energy.
con_6_3	There are legitimate uses, and people with permits are still allowed to use lasers.	There are legitimate uses, and people with permits are still allowed to use lasers. There are legitimate uses of laser pointers, but this is not at all a problem for people living in New South Wales. People with permits are still allowed to use laser pointers, so long as they use them properly. Because of this, legitimate users of laser pointers will not be effected.
con_6_4	Laser pointers are a valuable tool for self-defense	 Laser pointers are a valuable tool for self-defense Lasers are a good tool for personal self-defense. They can act much like mase, blinding and disabling an attacker.
