title	Turkey EU membership
question	Should Turkey be given membership in the EU?
headline_1	Part of Europe? Is Turkey part of Europe?
pro_1_1	Turkey is part of Europe	 Turkey is part of Europe In 1963, Walter Hallstein — at the time the President of the EEC — declared at the signature of the Association Agreement that "Turkey is part of Europe. This is the deepest possible meaning of this operation, which brings — in the most appropriate way conceivable in our time — the confirmation of a geographical reality as well as a historical truism that has been valid for several centuries."[2]
pro_1_2	There is no obvious and widely accepted geographical definition of Europe	There is no obvious and widely accepted geographical definition of Europe Is Russia a European country? Is Georgia or Armenia or Azerbaijan? Are Cyprus and Malta? Given that part of Turkey’s territory is on what everyone accepts is the European mainland, why shouldn’t it be allowed to join the main European club. After all, it already belongs to NATO and the Council of Europe, and participates in the Eurovision Song Contest and European football competitions.[3]
pro_1_3	Turkey has worked hard to befriend the EU	 Turkey has worked hard to befriend the EU David L. Phillips. "Turkey's Dreams of Accession". Foreign Affairs. Sept/Oct. 2004 - "Erdogan may indeed be torn between his Islamic beliefs and his politics. But he has worked consistently to strengthen Turkey's ties to the West, even when his foreign-policy initiatives-regarding the war in Iraq, peace in Cyprus, and Turkey's accession to the EU-have complicated his relations with both Islamists and ardent secularists in the military at home."
pro_1_4	Turkey is already a member of major Western/European organizations	 Turkey is already a member of major Western/European organizations 
con_1_1	Turkey is not a European country	Turkey is not a European country 95% of the nation’s land is on the wrong side of the Hellespont, in Asia. If Turkey is allowed into the European Union, not only would the institution’s very name become nonsensical, but it would be impossible to place a limit upon its potential future expansion.[4]
con_1_2	Admitting Turkey leads to a slippery slope of non-European admissions	 Admitting Turkey leads to a slippery slope of non-European admissions If the EU admits Turkey, what will prevent the application and admission of, for instance, Morocco? Admitting Turkey opens the door to a slippery slope of admitting non-European countries to the EU.
con_1_3	Admitting Turkey distracts from fully unifying Europe in the EU	 Admitting Turkey distracts from fully unifying Europe in the EU Europe has not had a chance to fully unify itself in the EU. Many eastern European states remain outside of the EU. Before Turkey is admitted, the EU should focus on admitting those states that are clearly and traditionally part of "Europe".
con_1_4	Membership in other organizations is immaterial.	Membership in other organizations is immaterial. The mere fact that Turkey is a meber of NATO does not mean that the EU would benefit from Turkey membership. Firstly, these organizations have a different structure and purpose, secondly, the EU doesn't need Turkey as a military power (precisely because Turkey is already in NATO).
headline_2	Religion: Is Turkey a secular country? Does religion have a role in this debate?
pro_2_1	Turkey is a fully secular state with a predominantly Muslim population.	Turkey is a fully secular state with a predominantly Muslim population. The new Justice and Development Party (AK) government is not seeking to overturn the secular constitution, although it does want to amend some laws that positively discriminate against devout Muslims. These include rules such as the ban on women wearing headscarves in government buildings; restrictions on expressing religious belief which would break human rights laws within the EU! In any case, millions of Muslims already live within the EU; excluding Turkey from membership on the grounds of religion would suggest these European Muslims were second-class citizens in a Christian club. It would also presumably rule out future EU entry for Albania, Bosnia and Kosovo. The EU should welcome a state which could provide a positive example of how Islam is completely compatible with democracy, progress and human rights.[6]
pro_2_2	Opposing Turkey's admission on the basis of Europe's Christian heritage is wrong.	Opposing Turkey's admission on the basis of Europe's Christian heritage is wrong. Europe does have a predominantly Christian heritage, but no modern, religiously tolerant politician should oppose the membership of a country on the basis of religious differences. This would be intolerant and wrong. 
pro_2_3	Turkey's EU admission would provide religious balance in Europe.	Turkey's EU admission would provide religious balance in Europe. Europe is seen as a Christian club in many ways. This is, in most ways, contrary to modern principles of diversity, integration, and mutual understanding. If religious diversity is seen as a desirable objective in itself, Turkey's membership will help in its realization.   
con_2_1	Admitting Turkey to the EU would cause the Islamisation of Europe	 Admitting Turkey to the EU would cause the Islamisation of Europe The (outgoing) European Commissioner for the Internal Market, Frits Bolkestein, warned of the "Islamisation of Europe" and said that should Turkey become an EU member ‘The relief of Vienna in 1683 [by a Catholic army from an Ottoman siege] will have been in vain’.[7]
con_2_2	Most opposition to Turkish membership is unrelated to Christian club in EU	 Most opposition to Turkish membership is unrelated to "Christian club" in EU Tom Spencer. "GOOD REASONS FOR SAYING NO TO TURKEY". http://www.publicaffairs.ac. August 19th, 2004 - "It has become fashionable to denounce those who oppose Turkish membership as wanting to keep Europe as a ‘Christian club’. This is to vulgarise thirteen centuries of complex interaction between Europe and Islam. In any case there are already somewhere between twelve and thirteen million Muslims living in the Europe of 25. There are a further seven million Muslims in Balkan states. Indeed one might reasonably expect there to be three predominately Muslim states in the completed European Union – Albania, Kosovo and the rump of Bosnia Herzegovina. It is nonsense to say therefore that the European Union refuses to admit Turkey because the predominant religion of its citizens is Islam. What matters much more is the nature of the historical experience and mindset of the nations which make up Europe."
con_2_3	Turkey's government and politics has Islamist elements:	Turkey's government and politics has Islamist elements: Turkey is not a Christian country but a Muslim one, unlike all the current or prospective EU states, which have been shaped by a shared legacy of Christian values, history and culture. Indeed Turkey’s history represents a clear rejection of any Christian tradition, from the centuries-long Ottoman Muslim conquest of Byzantine Christian territories, to the early twentieth century population exchange with Greece which removed millions of long-established Christian families from Turkish territory. Most recently, Turks have elected to government a party with islamist roots, likely to undermine the country’s secular constitution.[8]
con_2_4	Turkey EU membership should have nothing to do with religion.	Turkey EU membership should have nothing to do with religion. If there is a general feeling of Islamophobia among European heads of state and at the Commission then that's unacceptable and needs to  change. A date must be set for consideration of their inclusion so that the issue can gain broader exposure and generate more opinions.
headline_3	Democracy: Does Turkey uphold democratic principles?
pro_3_1	EU membership would help strengthen democracy in Turkey	 EU membership would help strengthen democracy in Turkey Its recent election of a party with islamist roots has led to a smooth transfer of power, with no attempt at intervention by the secularist military (as in the past). Turkey’s human rights record is also improving rapidly, with the recent abolition of the death penalty and the removal of some restrictions on the use of the Kurdish language. These advances have been prompted by the improved prospect of EU entry if Turkey conforms to "democratic norms", and this process is sure to continue to the benefit of both Turkish citizens and the EU if accession is offered in good faith.[9]
pro_3_2	Turkey has made significant reforms to gain EU membership	 Turkey has made significant reforms to gain EU membership. David L. Phillips. "Turkey's Dreams of Accession". Foreign Affairs. Sept/Oct. 2004- "Encouraged by the EU, Turkey has pursued legislative and constitutional reforms liberalizing the political system and relaxing restrictions on freedom of the press, association, and expression. Turkey signed and ratified Protocols 6 and 13 of the European Convention on Human Rights. It abolished the death penalty and adopted measures to promote independence of the judiciary, end torture during police interrogations, and reform the prison system. In addition, Turkey has significantly reduced the scope of its antiterrorism statutes, which had been used to curtail political expression, and it amended the Penal Code and Codes of Criminal and Administrative Procedure. Police powers have been curbed and the administration of justice strengthened, due partly to the dismantling of state security courts."
pro_3_3	Turkey has improved its treatment of Kurds to gain EU membership	 Turkey has improved its treatment of Kurds to gain EU membership. David L. Phillips. "Turkey's Dreams of Accession". Foreign Affairs. Sept/Oct. 2004 - "The protection and promotion of the rights of the Kurds, which make up about a fifth of Turkey's population, have also progressed. In several southeastern provinces, the long-standing state of emergency, which led to abuses by the military, has been lifted. New regulations have been adopted to facilitate Kurdish-language education. The rights of the Kurdish media and other broadcasters have been extended. And a provisional amnesty has been adopted for individuals involved in the Kurdish separatist movement. In June, an appeals court ordered the release of Leyla Zana and three other Kurdish parliamentarians who were jailed ten years ago after the Kurdistan Workers' Party was banned."
con_3_1	Turkey does not have a stable democracy and has a poor human rights record:	Turkey does not have a stable democracy and has a poor human rights record: The military has intervened three times to remove governments of which it disapproved in recent decades, most recently in 1997. Police use of torture is widespread and peaceful protestors, including but not only those wanting improved rights for the Kurdish minority, are still tried and imprisoned under anti-terrorist laws. There are also restrictions on the freedom of the press. It is true that reforms have begun, but there are questions as to how thoroughly these will be implemented. Until political dissidents are freed, those accused of human rights abuses are brought to trial and punished, and Kurds are given equal rights, Turkey cannot be judged a suitable candidate for EU accession.[10]
con_3_2	EU admission undermines Turkey's democratic example to Middle East	 EU admission undermines Turkey's democratic example to Middle East Tom Spencer. "GOOD REASONS FOR SAYING NO TO TURKEY". http://www.publicaffairs.ac. August 19th, 2004 - "It would also be bad for the Islamic world, which desperately needs examples of successfully functioning democracies. It would send entirely the wrong message if Turkey’s recent relative success with democracy was ‘rewarded’ by its being defined as ‘European’. In fact non-Arab Muslim countries have a reasonable history of establishing and preserving democratic regimes. The problem for the Arab world lies in the lack of legitimacy of the regimes which succeeded the destruction of the Ottoman Empire by the British and the French after the First World War. Europe can and should play a key role in bringing security and prosperity to the Greater Middle East. It will not however do so successfully on the basis of sloppy history and poorly defined foreign policy goals. It would be much better to end a generation of diplomatic dishonesty by giving the Turks a simple ‘No’ now and starting work on the creative task of how Turkey and Europe together can bring security to the regions which they jointly abut."
headline_4	EU institutions: Would Turkey fit neatly into the EU's political institutions?
pro_4_1	A growing EU reduces the significance of Turkey's size and population:	A growing EU reduces the significance of Turkey's size and population: Turkey is a large country in European terms, but even if its population would make it the largest single EU member by 2020, this would still only give it some 15% of the total in an enlarged EU of 25 countries or more. This is a much smaller proportion than Germany represents now, so it is ridiculous to argue that Turkey would dominate EU decision-making.[11]
con_4_1	Turkey size would give it too much voting power in the EU	 Turkey size would give it too much voting power in the EU By 2020, on current population trends, it is likely to have more than 90 million people, making it the largest single state in the EU. As population size determines representation and voting strength in the Council of Ministers, and in the European Parliament, Turkey would be able to dominate EU decision-making and set its own agenda, to the disadvantage of existing members.[12]
headline_5	Regional stability: Is Turkey and its surrounding neighborhood relatively stable?
pro_5_1	Turkey's proximity to conflict zones would not endanger the EU.	Turkey's proximity to conflict zones would not endanger the EU. Turkey is already a long-standing member of NATO, the defence club to which the large majority of current and prospective EU states belongs. This means that any security crisis on Turkey’s borders already involves its European neighbours. Furthermore, as the EU has begun to develop its own defence identity outside NATO, it has had to involve Turkey over issues of planning and access to NATO assets. Finally, engagement between Turkey and the EU has greatly reduced historic enmity between Turkey and Greece, and held out hope for a solution to the division of Cyprus, showing the benefits of a closer relationship.[13]
pro_5_2	EU membership for Turkey would help liberalize the Middle East	 EU membership for Turkey would help liberalize the Middle East David L. Phillips. "Turkey's Dreams of Accession". Foreign Affairs. Sept/Oct. 2004 - Summary:  The hope of joining the EU has driven major reforms in Turkey, including economic liberalization, human rights protection, and greater civilian oversight of the military. But these reforms have fueled suspicions among Islamists and hard-line army officers. EU membership would help Turkey become a successful Muslim democracy, strengthen it as an ally in the fight against terrorism, and foster liberalization in the Islamic world.
pro_5_3	Turkey membership will help advance EU interests in the Middle East	 Turkey membership will help advance EU interests in the Middle East If Turkey is a member state, the EU will be able to exercise greater influence in the Middle East through Turkey.  
con_5_1	Turkey's admission would expose the EU to new conflicts and dangers.	Turkey's admission would expose the EU to new conflicts and dangers. The Caucasus is very unstable, with some of its nations looking to Turkey for support for religious and cultural reasons. A Middle Eastern border would involve the EU in the Israeli-Arab conflict and give it a border with an aggressive and unstable Iraq (and Iran), with whom it would share an assertive Kurdish minority seeking statehood. Turkey even has major disputes with Greece, a current EU member, over territory in the Aegean and over the divided Island of Cyprus, where it alone recognises and backs the Turkish Republic of North Cyprus, preventing a settlement.[14]
headline_6	Terrorism: Would Turkey's membership benefit anti-terrorism efforts in the EU?
pro_6_1	Turkey's EU membership would help the fight against terrorism	 Turkey's EU membership would help the fight against terrorism David L. Phillips. "Turkey's Dreams of Accession". Foreign Affairs. Sept/Oct. 2004 - "Turkey is a secular Muslim democracy and a crucial ally for the West. The eastern flank of NATO, straddling Europe and Asia, it played a critical role in containing the Soviet Union during the Cold War. In the 1990s, it helped monitor Saddam Hussein and protect Iraqi Kurds by permitting U.S. warplanes to use its bases. After the September 11, 2001, attacks, it became a staging area for coalition forces in Afghanistan, where Turkish forces eventually assumed overall command of the International Stabilization Force. Turkey continues to be a pivotal partner in the fight against al Qaeda and other terrorist groups, despite attacks by radical Islamists at home."
con_6_1	Turkish membership would increase terrorist threats in EU	 Turkish membership would increase terrorist threats in EU Jihad Watch Board Vice President Hugh Fitzgerald - "Turkey will not be admitted to the E.U. It will not be admitted because, at this point, given the behavior mainly of Arab Muslims (for does anyone doubt that it was the Arab influence that caused some Chechens to embrace not only the idea of Jihad, but all of the current methods being used to further it), Europeans have lost their stomach for parroting phrases about the religion of "peace" and "tolerance." They do not want to admit a country of 70 million Muslims, who would then move freely about Europe. They do not want Turkey admitted because it will be an easy conduit for non-Turkish Muslims to enter Europe, posing as Turks."[15]
headline_7	Economics: Will Turkey's admission be economically advantageous?
pro_7_1	Turkey's membership would economically benefit the EU	 Turkey's membership would economically benefit the EU Turkish Delight - Does Turkey's Accession to the EU Bring Economic Benefits? RUUD A. DE MOOIJ  , ARJAN LEJOUR CPB Netherlands Bureau of Economic Policy Analysis; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute for Economic Research)May 2004 "We explore the economic implications of the possible Turkish accession to the European Union. We focus on three main changes associated with Turkish membership: (i) accession to the internal European Market; (ii) institutional reforms in Turkey triggered by EU membership; and (iii) migration in response to the free movement of workers. Overall, the macroeconomic implications for EU countries are small but positive. European exports increase by around 20 percent. Turkey experiences larger economic gains than the EU: consumption per capita is estimated to rise by about 4 percent as a result of accession to the internal market and free movement of labour. If Turkey would succeed in reforming its domestic institutions in response to EU-membership, consumption per capita in Turkey could raise by an additional 9 percent. These benefits would spill over to the EU."
pro_7_2	Turkey's large population offers a strong market for EU goods	 Turkey's large population offers a strong market for EU goods 
pro_7_3	Admission to the EU will generate greater investments in Turkey.	Admission to the EU will generate greater investments in Turkey. 
pro_7_4	EU membership will improve the standard of living in Turkey	 EU membership will improve the standard of living in Turkey Turkey's Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said in 2006, "I don't find these negative campaigns to be right. This is what our negotiations with the EU and our membership will bring: the standard of the living of the Turkish people will rise."[16]
pro_7_5	The EU has welcomed poorer entrants before without disaster:	The EU has welcomed poorer entrants before without disaster: Ireland, Spain, Portugal and Greece were all much poorer than the EU average when they joined and all are now well integrated and much more prosperous. Disastrous migration was forecast in their cases too, but did not occur. Nor is Turkey as poor as has been suggested; Romania, Bulgaria, Latvia and Lithuania among current prospective entrants all have lower GDP per capita. Turkey’s economy is also in the process of reform, including the restructuring of its banking system and IMF programmes; in the next few years this process will allow for faster, more sustained growth.[17]
con_7_1	The EU will never be able to integrate Turkey economically:	The EU will never be able to integrate Turkey economically: Turkey is too poor, with millions of subsistence farmers and living standards far below the European norm (making massive migration to richer EU countries inevitable). It has huge debts following a banking crisis and crash in 2001 and only survives due to massive aid from the IMF (which many see as its reward for providing support to the USA over Iraq, Israel, etc.). It will already be very difficult for the EU to integrate the much wealthier Central European states, and to provide the money for reconstruction in the Balkans. Coping with a much poorer, much less stable, much more indebted Turkey is simply not possible.[18]
con_7_2	Turkey is too poor and underdeveloped to join the EU	 Turkey is too poor and underdeveloped to join the EU "Turkey’s Membership Application: Implications for the EU". Jean Monnet/Robert Schuman Paper Series. Vol. 5 No. 26. August 2005 - "Level of economic development. Turkey is a significantly poorer country than any of the ten states which joined the EU in May 2004 and is also poorer than Bulgaria and Romania which are scheduled to join in 2007. Despite its current population accounting for 15 per cent of the EU-25 population, its GDP is equivalent to just 2 per cent of the EU-25 GDP. Its GDP per capita is 28.5 per cent of the EU-25 GDP (European Commission, 2004c: 13)."
con_7_3	Turkey is likely to be a major funding strain on the EU	 Turkey is likely to be a major funding strain on the EU 
con_7_4	Turkey doesn't have to join the EU	Turkey doesn't have to join the EU in order to receive investment. Besides, Turkey is already a member of a customs union, thus does not need the EU membership.
headline_8	Immigration: Would open borders to immigration (via EU membership) be beneficial?
pro_8_1	Turkish labor market would benefit EU	 Turkish labor market would benefit EU "Turkey’s Membership Application: Implications for the EU". Jean Monnet/Robert Schuman Paper Series. Vol. 5 No. 26. August 2005 - "The nature of Turkey’s labor market. Turkey has a much younger workforce than the EU-25 and a much faster growing workforce given its high birth rates. According to Commission projections, the EU-25’s total population will increase by just 2% (458 million to 449 million) between 2005 and 2025, with its working age population falling by 21 million. From 2005 to 2030, the number of people over 65 will rise by 52.3 % while the 15-64 age group will decrease by 6.8%, resulting in the ratio of dependent young and old people to people of working age increasing from 49% in 2005 to 66% in 2030 (European Commission, 2005). Movement of labor from Turkey to other EU states could thus be vital both to provide working personnel and to help maintain welfare systems which could be under severe pressures."
con_8_1	EU should not admit Turkey to gain young immigrant workers	 EU should not admit Turkey to gain young immigrant workers Tom Spencer. "GOOD REASONS FOR SAYING NO TO TURKEY". http://www.publicaffairs.ac. August 19th, 2004 - "A new variant of the case for admitting Turkey stresses the supposed need to balance Europe’s ageing population with a vast import of predominantly Islamic young labour. Barnett argues that the USA will meet its own ageing problem in its traditional way by admitting millions of migrants from Mexico and Latin America. He calculates that to achieve the same ‘success’, the European Union would need to admit 1.5 million immigrants a year and that by 2050 a quarter of its population would be foreign born. However the world is moving towards population balance or indeed reduction by 2050, so such vast upheavals would only ‘solve’ the ageing problem for one generation. One is surely entitled to wonder by what right Muslim immigration is privileged over non-Muslim? Similarly, one might wonder why Turkish Muslims are privileged over Egyptian or Indian Muslim immigrants?"
con_8_2	EU membership would cause a damaging influx of Turkish immigrants	 EU membership would cause a damaging influx of Turkish immigrants 
headline_9	Promises: Was Turkey promised membership in the EU?
pro_9_1	Turkey was promised a chance to join the EU at the Helsinki summit (1999)	Turkey was promised a chance to join the EU at the Helsinki summit (1999) This was when its candidacy was unanimously accepted after three decades of consistent Turkish requests. 
pro_9_2	By breaking its promises, the EU may turn Turkey into an enemy.	By breaking its promises, the EU may turn Turkey into an enemy. If the EU is seen to break its promise to Turkey it may turn a potential friend and partner into a suspicious and hostile neighboor.
pro_9_3	That Turkey needs to reform should not block its admission to the EU.	That Turkey needs to reform should not block its admission to the EU. Clearly economic and political reforms are necessary, but that is true of all member states and should not be used as an excuse to backtrack now. Starting negotiations will focus attention upon what must be done before entry can take place, perhaps in a decade or so, as it has in Central Europe over the past few years. 
con_9_1	The EU never promised membership to Turkey.	The EU never promised membership to Turkey. Turkey first applied to join the EU back in the 1960s but there is no document where EU leaders have promised to include Turkey in the future. Even if they had, past declarations (as opposed to treaties) cannot be held to bind today’s leaders in weighing both their own national interest and the wider European interest. 
headline_10	Privileged partnership: Is a privileged partnership inferior to full membership for the EU?
con_10_1	Turkey deserves a privileged partnership with the EU; not membership	Turkey deserves a privileged partnership with the EU; not membership This position has been maintained by prominent politicians such as former French president Jacques Chirac. 
headline_11	Armenian genocide: Is Turkey's alleged genocide of Armenians irrelevant?
pro_11_1	Genocide allegations irrelevant to Turkey EU membership	 Genocide allegations irrelevant to Turkey EU membership "Javier Solana: History should be analyzed by historians." Zaman Newspaper. 4 April 2009 Javier Solano, High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) and the Secretary-General of both the Council of the European Union (EU) and the Western European Union (WEU), when asked a question on whether the allegations of Armenian Genocide were an impediment for Turkey to accede to EU stated on April 3 2009, that "history was history and should be left to historians to be analyzed."
con_11_1	Admitting Turkey undermines European values.	Admitting Turkey undermines European values. It is fundamentally wrong to admit a country that directly violates laws of a significant number of European states (in Germany denying genocide is illegal), the more if it concerns such a sensitive issue. Denying genocide is immoral because a) it shows selfish interest for how a country/government is viewed by its people (instead of how it is perceived by international actors), b) it goes against the principle "never again", c) it denies responsibilty and d) it tries to rewrite history instead of drawing lessons from it.
headline_12	Cyprus: Has Turkey performed adequately on the Cyprus issue?
pro_12_1	Turkey has acted according to EU wishes in Cyprus	 Turkey has acted according to EU wishes in Cyprus "Turkey’s Membership Application: Implications for the EU". Jean Monnet/Robert Schuman Paper Series. Vol. 5 No. 26. August 2005 - "As part of this pressing ahead, Turkey duly ‘fell into line’ on Cyprus, by – successfully - urging Turkish Cypriots to support the April 2004 referendum in northern Cyprus on the Annan Plan for re-unification of the island. Re-unification did not subsequently occur, but this was because in a parallel referendum Greek Cypriots voted against the Annan Plan. In consequence, the main responsibility for the continuing division of Cyprus was now seen to rest in the eyes of all EU-25 states - apart, of course, from the Republic of Cyprus itself - with the Greek Cypriots rather than with Turkey and the Turkish Cypriots."
con_12_1	It is principally wrong to admit Turkey.	It is principally wrong to admit Turkey. How can the EU show "unity in diversity", when it admits a country that denies mere existence of a member state?
headline_13	EU opinion: Where do EU countries stand on the issue?
con_13_1	EU states strongly opposed to Turkey's admission should not be dragged along	EU states strongly opposed to Turkey's admission should not be dragged along In a few states there are actually large majorities against: by as much as 2: 1 in Austria, France and Germany. The EU should not force these strongly opposed states to accept Turkey's admission into the EU. 
con_13_2	The majority of Europeans oppose Turkey's accession to the EU	 The majority of Europeans oppose Turkey's accession to the EU 
con_13_3	Majority of Germans oppose Turkey EU membership	 Majority of Germans oppose Turkey EU membership "Germans Oppose Turkey’s EU Accession". Angus Reid, Global Monitor. November 14, 2006 - "Abstract: - Many adults in Germany believe Turkey should not be allowed to become a member of the European Union (EU), according to a poll by FG Wahlen for ZDF. 61 per cent of respondents oppose Turkey's accession into the continental group."
con_13_4	Turkish membership may cause a backlash among EU publics.	Turkish membership may cause a backlash among EU publics. The possible negative impact of Turkish EU membership upon existing members must be considered. The recent rise of far-right anti-immigration politicians, such as Jean-Marie Le Pen, Jorg Haidar and Pym Fortuyn point to a dangerous public reaction to more open borders and unchecked migration.[19]
headline_14	Turkish opinion: Do Turks want to join the EU?
pro_14_1	Majority of Turkish people want EU membership	 Majority of Turkish people want EU membership Philippa Runner. "Most Turks keen to join EU". June 6th, 2008 - "The majority of Turkish people today favour joining the EU despite worsening Franco-Turkish relations and a partial freeze on EU-Turkey accession talks. Sixty two percent said they would vote 'yes' to EU membership if there was a referendum, while 27 percent would vote 'no,' a May survey by Ankara's MetroPOLL research centre said."
