title	Ban on human reproductive cloning
question	Should human reproductive cloning be banned and punishments leveled against it?
headline_1	Clone: Is cloning fair to cloned humans?
pro_1_1	Human cloning violates the rights of the child to parents	 Human cloning violates the rights of the child to parents Statement of the Catholic Leadership Conference on Human Cloning. The Catholic Leadership Conference. November 1, 2001 - "In the case of reproductive cloning the engendered child would be brought to term and delivered without the benefit of parents since it would carry the genetic code only of the one who had supplied the DNA from his or her somatic cell. This would also constitute a violation of the rights of the child in many ways. Since there is currently no basis in common or statutory law to determine who would have responsibility for the care of the child, it would be left in a precarious position."
pro_1_2	While illegal clones should have rights, a ban is still justified	 While illegal clones should have rights, a ban is still justified John F. Kilner and Robert P. George. "Human Cloning: What’s at Stake". The Center for Bioethics and Dignity. 2004 - "All human cloning—all creation of new human beings by asexual processes—should be legally prohibited. Yet even with proper laws in place, it is likely that someday someone would break the laws, creating and bringing to term a cloned human, or perhaps several such persons. It is important that we acknowledge in advance their human dignity and fundamental rights.
pro_1_3	Human cloning produces sub-humans without ordinary souls.	Human cloning produces sub-humans without ordinary souls. Human cloning produces individuals artificially. As such, these individuals cannot have ordinary, God-given souls. Sadly, therefore, clones are sub-humans.
pro_1_4	Scientists want to create a race of clones to experiment on	 Scientists want to create a race of clones to experiment on Wayne Jackson. "The Ethics of Human Cloning". The Christian Courier. April 30, 2001 - "One must first raise this question? Why do scientists want to clone human beings? It certainly is not because they are anxious to generate a larger population for our planet. They continually protest that the earth is over-crowded already. Rather, they are anxious to create a brand of humans with whom they can experiment."
pro_1_5	People want to clone humans for their organs	 People want to clone humans for their organs. Rabbi Shraga Simmons. "Cloning". June 3rd, 2008. Aisha.com - "the potential for abuse is enormous. The most frightening idea is "growing" humans in cages, in order to "harvest" their bodies for spare parts. It is not far-fetched to imagine an unscrupulous multi-millionaire cloning himself in this manner -- in case he should ever need a kidney, heart, eye, bone marrow, etc."
con_1_1	Deformed clones would still be happy to be alive	 Deformed clones would still be happy to be alive Nick Bostrom, Faculty of Philosophy at Oxford University. "Human Reproductive Cloning from the Perspective of the Future". December 27th, 2002 - "Such an imaginary point-of-view can help us put things in perspective. There is one argument that, as a future clone, you might understand and agree with: concerns about the safety of the procedure. The argument that we ought to postpone human cloning until we have perfected the method in animals makes some degree of sense. (Even so, suppose you were a slightly deformed human clone - would you agree that it was a terrible moral offense to have caused you to come into existence?)"
con_1_2	Cloned humans have a soul and are ordinary humans in every way	 Cloned humans have a soul and are ordinary humans in every way "The case for cloning humans". The Age. January 1, 2003 - "But what of the souls? Can two people share the one soul? Is it not wrong to force two personalities on to one piece of divine substance? Again, the fact that there are identical twins counts against there being a problem. Twins seem to manage, and that seems to suggest that each person is able to be ensouled regardless of their genetic make-up. That is, assuming souls exist at all. These days theologians don't make a big thing of the soul. But even if there are souls, it seems unlikely to count against cloning. It's hard to imagine that God would have any difficulty telling the difference between one clone and another, or in ensuring that each person has a distinct soul - if that is how it works."
con_1_3	Cloned humans should have equal rights	 Cloned humans should have equal rights Brendan Tobin of the Irish Center for Human Rights, an author a UN report on cloning: "Failure to outlaw reproductive cloning means it is just a matter of time until cloned individuals share the planet. If failure to compromise continues, the world community must accept responsibility and ensure that any cloned individual receives full human rights protection. It will also need to embark on an extensive awareness building and sensitivity program to ensure that the wider society treats clones with respect and ensure they are protected against prejudice, abuse or discrimination."[1]
con_1_4	Clones are not good or bad; they have the potential to be either	 Clones are not good or bad; they have the potential to be either Rabbi Shraga Simmons. "Cloning". June 3rd, 2008. Aisha.com - "So... is cloning good or bad? Judaism says there is nothing in the world that is inherently good or evil; there is only the potential for good and evil. Even something we typically associate as "bad" - for example, outrage - can be used for good - outrage against injustice. Similarly, even something we typically associate as "good" - for example, giving - can be used for bad - over-giving, or smothering. Talent, education and wisdom only have potential."
con_1_5	Clones' quality-of-life depends on how they are received/treated	 Clones' quality-of-life depends on how they are received/treated If clones are treated poorly by society, they will lead less happy lives as others. If they are treated well, they will likely lead equally happy lives as normal people. Because their happiness will depend largely on how we receive them, we need only adjust our attitude to be more receptive. Banning cloning because we will mistreat them is not fair; it punishes clones for our failures.
headline_2	Clone safety: Does human cloning encounter safety problems?
pro_2_1	Cloning technology is unsafe for the resulting life	 Cloning technology is unsafe for the resulting life. The nuclear transfer technique that produced Dolly required 277 embryos, from which only one healthy and viable sheep was produced. The other foetuses were hideously deformed and either died or were aborted. Moreover, Ian Wilmut and other commentators have noted that we cannot know whether clones will suffer from premature ageing as a result of their elderly genes. There are also fears that the reprogramming of the nucleus of a somatic cell in order to trigger the cell division that leads to the cloning of an individual may result in a significantly increased risk of cancer.
pro_2_2	Human cloning results in the death of many cloned babies	 Human cloning results in the death of many cloned babies John Kilner, president of the Centre for Bioethics and Human Dignity in the United States - "The majority of published research shows that death or mutilation of the clone are the most likely outcomes of mammalian cloning"[2]
pro_2_3	Pushing forward with human cloning violates the precautionary principle	 Pushing forward with human cloning violates the precautionary principle "Why Environmentalists Oppose Human Cloning And Inheritable Genetic Modification". Friends of the Earth. Retrieved June 3rd, 2008 - "Why Environmental Groups Oppose Human Cloning. While all of us seek to improve the quality of human life, certain activities in the area of genetics and cloning should be prohibited because they violate basic environmental and ethical principles - principles that form the core values for which the environmental movement stands. Precautionary Principle - The precautionary principle is a cornerstone of environmentalism. It requires that we have some regard for the consequences of our actions before we carry them out. In this century alone, the list of unforeseen and unintended consequences of modern industrial civilization is enormous; so is the attendant economic and environmental damage. The unforeseen and devastating consequences of the use of CFCs, DDT, and PCBs illustrate the need for this underlying principle." 
con_2_1	Cloning is safe enough to perform on humans	 Cloning is safe enough to perform on humans Pamela Schaeffer. "Special Section: Human Destiny. Many oppose human cloning". National Catholic Reporter - "Many non-scientists assume that cloning humans will be too difficult and risky a process to attempt on humans. But Silver challenges the “muddled thinking” behind such arguments. Despite early hurdles, experimentation with cloning is moving ahead.
con_2_2	Medical advancements once feared are now accepted; cloning is the same	 Medical advancements once feared are now accepted; cloning is the same. "The case for cloning humans". The Age. January 1, 2003 - "Whenever a new possibility comes along we tend to oppose it. IVF was opposed; surrogacy even more so. But we have come to accept both. In the case of IVF, there were similar fears about the risk of harm to the child - and we have come to live with the actual results. So it might be with cloning. What at first seems unthinkable might turn out to be a blessing for some or a possibility for many."
con_2_3	Opponents exaggerate the impact that cloning will have on the world	 Opponents exaggerate the impact that cloning will have on the world Nick Bostrom, Faculty of Philosophy at Oxford University. "Human Reproductive Cloning from the Perspective of the Future". December 27th, 2002 - "In the big scheme of things, cloning will not significantly change the world. Some people will owe their lives to this technology, and some infertile couples will be grateful for having had the chance to raise a child of their own. Some people may misguidedly use cloning to try to bring back a lost child or a loved one, not realizing that personal identity is not reducible to genetic identity. Some people may choose to have a child that is a clone of a stranger they admire, perhaps a great scientist, athlete or religious leader; yet if the current level of demand for elite sperm or elite eggs is any guide, the people who choose this option will be in a tiny minority."
headline_3	Individualism: Will individualism be undermined by cloning?
pro_3_1	A cloned human would have a diminished sense of identity/individuality	 A cloned human would have a diminished sense of identity/individuality Instead of being considered as a unique individual, the child will be a copy of his parent, and be expected to share the same traits and interests, such that his life will no longer be his own. This is an unacceptable infringement of the liberty and autonomy that we grant to every human person. The confusion of the offspring is likely to be compounded by the fact that his ‘parent’, from whom he is cloned, will be genetically his twin brother or sister. There is no way of knowing how children will react to having such a confused genetic heritage.
pro_3_2	Reproductive cloning generally diminishes human individualism	 Reproductive cloning generally diminishes human individualism "Why Environmentalists Oppose Human Cloning And Inheritable Genetic Modification". Friends of the Earth. Retrieved June 3rd, 2008 - "Today, we face another change -- the radical reorganization of life at the genetic level. This could propel us into a “brave new world,” devaluing each individual and completing the divorce from nature that began a long time ago."
pro_3_3	Human cloning makes individuals replaceable	 Human cloning makes individuals replaceable "Is Human Reproductive Cloning Inevitable: Future Options for UN Governance". United Nations University. September 2007 - "Amongst the arguments raised against cloning has been concern that reproductive cloning would lessen the respect for individuals because of the feeling that they could easily be replaced.23 Every form of reproductive technology raises some question of human values, dignity, worth and juridical rights, some linked to the notion that the person should not be used as a mere mechanical instrument, and that every human individual is a non-repeatable being." 
con_3_1	Cloning does not xerox an individual; all individuals become unique	 Cloning does not xerox an individual; all individuals become unique Pamela Schaeffer. "Special Section: Human Destiny. Many oppose human cloning". National Catholic Reporter - "Many scientists and ethicists caution, too, against “genetic determinism,” pointing out that environmental factors play a critical role in shaping human development. Michael Jordan’s clone, lacking the same drive and training, might not be a basketball star."
con_3_2	It is a false requirement that clones possess individuality	 It is a false requirement that clones possess individuality Why should it matter that clones posses individuality? Do other humans have full individuality? Yes and no. Similar to clones possessing the genetic code of their parent, so too do normal ordinary children. And, in the same way that an individual is influenced and shaped by their parents, so too are clones. That clones have a fully individual identity is, therefore, a false requirement. 
con_3_3	Individualism will be maintained despite cloning, as clones will develop their own unique identities:	Individualism will be maintained despite cloning, as "clones" will develop their own unique identities: Children produced by reproductive cloning will be ‘clones’ but not ‘copies’ of their parents: Different environmental factors, nurture, and the process of gestation mean that children will not be emotionally or mentally identical to the people from whom they are cloned. Furthermore, this objection would apply to all identical twins. A small proportion of identical twins do indeed suffer from psychological problems related to feelings of a lack of individuality. However, cloned children would in fact be in a better position than these monozygotic twins, as the clones will be many years younger than their genetic twins, which are of course their parents. They will not be daily compared to a physically identical individual, as there will be a gap between their ages, and hence psychological and physical characteristics, of tens of years.
con_3_4	Moral arguments against cloning are unfair to future human clones	 Moral arguments against cloning are unfair to future human clones How would you feel if you were a clone and society considered your creation illegal and your existence deplorable? Our of respect for human clones (human beings in every respect), a ban on human cloning should be opposed.
headline_4	Playing God/nature? Is human cloning playing God and/or nature?
pro_4_1	Cloning plays against God's intentions for reproduction and family	 Cloning plays against God's intentions for reproduction and family. It is not merely intervention in the body’s natural processes, but the creation of a new and wholly unnatural process of asexual reproduction. Clerics within the Catholic, Moslem and Jewish faiths have all expressed their opposition to human cloning.However, this objection to cloning is not specifically theological. David Hume, the eighteenth-century Scottish moral philosopher, warned us to heed our feelings as much as our logical reasoning. Leon R. Kass of the University of Chicago has stated in relation to human cloning, that mere failure to produce scientific reasons against the technology, does not mean we should deny our strong and instinctive reactions to it. As he states, there is a "wisdom in repugnance".
pro_4_2	Cloning undermines the natural relationship between procreation and family	 Cloning undermines the natural relationship between procreation and family Pamela Schaeffer. "Special Section: Human Destiny. Many oppose human cloning". National Catholic Reporter - "The Vatican opposes cloning humans, in part, because it is a means of reproduction that, like in vitro fertilization, does not derive directly from sexual intercourse between a married man and woman. In fact, more than any other reproductive technology, cloning threatens to sever the link between sex, marriage and reproduction, and to render the male role in reproduction obsolete."
pro_4_3	Asexual reproduction is sub-optimal for the human species	 Asexual reproduction is sub-optimal for the human species Dr. George Johnson. "Should A Clone Have Rights?". On Science. Retrieved July 9th, 2008 - "Asexual reproduction, in which all offspring are genetically identical clones, is common in nature in both plants (dandilions are a common example) and animals (some lizard species have only females), but usually only in extreme or high-risk environments, where survival is uncertain. Nature has not favored asexual reproduction in any mammal because the 20% of variation due to nurture is just not enough protection against an uncertain future if you are going to make a major investment in each offspring. It is thus the very nature of our species that places such value on variation among individuals, and I find that the deepest and most compelling reason to carefully consider the implications of human cloning before proceeding."
pro_4_4	Human cloning divorces man from nature and natural processes	 Human cloning divorces man from nature and natural processes "Why Environmentalists Oppose Human Cloning And Inheritable Genetic Modification". Friends of the Earth. Retrieved June 3rd, 2008 - "Today, we face another change -- the radical reorganization of life at the genetic level. This could propel us into a “brave new world,” devaluing each individual and completing the divorce from nature that began a long time ago." 
con_4_1	This argument assumes that we know God’s intentions.	This argument assumes that we know God’s intentions. Evidently, there is no biblical statement on the ethics of human cloning. Who is to say that it is not God’s will that we clone ourselves ? At least one Hindu writer has indicated that Hindu thought embraces IVF and other assisted reproduction technology (ART). Moreover, every time that a doctor performs life-saving surgery or administers drugs he is changing the destiny of the patient and could be thus seen as usurping the role of God. Furthermore, we should be very wary of banning something without being able to say why it is wrong. That way lie all sorts irrational superstition, repression, fundamentalism and extremism.
con_4_2	Human cloning plays God less than lauded therapeutic cloning	 Human cloning "plays God" less than lauded therapeutic cloning "The case for cloning humans". The Age. January 1, 2003 - "I mention God, and to some people it seems that God alone should have power over life and death. It is playing God for us to interfere in this way with the reproductive process. Such an objection may actually be the most powerful for some people. The sin of hubris - Icarus trying to be like God and flying too high - there has always been literature about the need to accept human limitations. The recognition of limits and acceptance of our destiny is an attitude we have admired and thought noble.
con_4_3	Humans have the right to choose to practice cloning	 Humans have the right to choose to practice cloning "Why cloning people is a good idea". Everything 2. Retrieved June 7th, 2008 - "Cloning is the freedom to choose. We have that right. The only ones out there who think we don't are the theists, whose ideological basis is that they are slaves anyway to some invisible master. These people believe it is wrong to "create" life. We create life every time we plant a plant or breed livestock. We create life every time we mate, but that union's outcome is random. Humans aren't special. Our planet takes up such a tiny part of the universe and so many things could kill us off. We need every bit of luck and innovation to survive."
headline_5	Human dignity: Is human cloning contrary to the notion of human dignity?
pro_5_1	Reproductive cloning undermines human dignity	 Reproductive cloning undermines human dignity: ‘Donum Vitae’, the declaration of the Catholic church in relation to the new reproductive technologies, holds that procreation outside the conjugal union is morally wrong. Many secular organisations, such as the WHO and UNESCO have issued statements that similarly find cloning violates human dignity. Assisted reproductive technologies might all be seen as challenges to human dignity, including IVF and sperm donation. However, human cloning is a completely artificial form of reproduction, which leaves no trace of the dignity of human procreation.
pro_5_2	Reproductive cloning would entail dehumanizing experimentation	 Reproductive cloning would entail dehumanizing experimentation "Just Say No To Human Cloning". The Center for Public Justice. March 18, 1997 - "Let's allow science to move forward. But let's also recognize that science is not God and ought to be kept within bounds. It should not be treated as humanity's savior. Human beings are not simply genes and molecules. The sanctity of human life should be protected in law. Humans should not be turned into an experimental playground."
pro_5_3	Human clones will be seen and treated by some as inferior	 Human clones will be seen and treated by some as inferior John F. Kilner and Robert P. George. "Human Cloning: What’s at Stake". The Center for Bioethics and Dignity. 2004 - "Yet it is predictable that cloned children—as products of ethically dubious asexual reproduction—will be viewed by some as inferior, much the way that many people once looked down on children born out of wedlock."
con_5_1	Why is sexual procreation more dignified than scientific procreation?	Why is sexual procreation more "dignified" than scientific procreation? It is difficult to understand why the act of sexual intercourse that leads to sexual procreation is any more ‘dignified’ or respectable than a reasoned decision by an adult to have a child, that is assisted by modern science. The thousands of children given life through IVF therapy do not suffer a lack of dignity as a consequence of their method of procreation. The Catholic church regards every embryo from the moment of existence as a living person. This position is not shared by most Western governments, and it would deny not only cloning, but IVF and all the medical knowledge and benefits that have accrued from embryo research.
headline_6	Eugenics: Will cloning lead to an unethical eugenics movement?
pro_6_1	Cloning will lead to eugenics, or the artificial manipulation and control of the characteristics of people.	Cloning will lead to eugenics, or the artificial manipulation and control of the characteristics of people. An American geneticist, Dr. Dan Brock, has already identified a trend towards ‘new and benign eugenics’ that is perpetrated by developments in biotechnology. When people are able to clone themselves they will be able to choose which type of person shall be born. This seems uncomfortably close to the Nazi concept of breeding a race of Aryan superhumans, whilst eliminating those individuals whose characteristics they considered unhealthy. The ‘Boys from Brazil’ scenario of clones of Hitler, the baby farms of ‘Brave New World’, or even the cloning or armies of identical and disposable soldiers, might soon be a very real prospect.
pro_6_2	Dictators will use cloning to produce massive armies.	Dictators will use cloning to produce massive armies.
pro_6_3	Cloning evil people will not result in evil clones	 Cloning evil people will not result in evil clones "Why cloning people is a good idea". Everything 2 - "even if a person wanted to go and clone Hitler - let them. The Hitler they create would have only the tiniest chance in the universe, considerably less than winning a lottery, of turning out even remotely the same. The two Hitler's wouldn't look anything like each other - our clone might be short and fat, tall and thin, excitable or calm, determined by what childhood he led. His world outlook would have nothing in common with Hitler, and even if we force-fed him the same ideology there would be no guarantee he would accept it."
pro_6_4	Cloning leads to the commodification and manufacture of humans	 Cloning leads to the commodification and manufacture of humans Aldous Huxley, Brave New World - "Ninety-six identical twins working ninety-six identical machines!” The voice was almost tremulous with enthusiasm. “You really know where you are. For the first time in history.” He quoted the planetary motto. “Community, Identity, Stability.” Grand words. “If we could bokanovskify indefinitely the whole problem would be solved.”
con_6_1	Cloning will not lead to the mass production of clones	 Cloning will not lead to the mass production of clones "Why cloning people is a good idea". Everything 2 - "What about factory producing children? Long production lines churning out infants? Dream on fear-mongers. Cloning still requires mothers to bear the children to term. There is no such thing as an artificial womb. Furthermore, there are too many people on this planet now to even consider the vast population increases you are fantasizing about. Could Saddam Hussein clone an army? Yes, but it would be easier and cheaper just to hire one. He would need thousands of Iraqi mothers to bear children, who he would then have to house, feed and educate for 20 years before they would be old enough to fight for him. He'd be dead of old age long before and the issue in conflict long forgotten."
con_6_2	Creating better humans through cloning is a good thing	 Creating better humans through cloning is a good thing "Why cloning people is a good idea". Everything 2 - "And what about super-humans? What about them? Is it not infinitely better for the human race to be perfectly adapted to its environment than to struggle along hoping the next random sexual union will produce a wonder child? The endless game against nature would be mostly over. Diseases which have dogged us for generations could be wiped out due to our evolving faster than they could ever hope to."
con_6_3	It is baseless that a dictator would build an army of clones	 It is baseless that a dictator would build an army of clones Nathan Myhrvold. "Human Clones: Why Not? Opposition to cloning isn't just Luddism--it's racism." Slate.com. March 14, 1997 - "One recurring image in anti-cloning propaganda is of some evil dictator raising an army of cloned warriors. Excuse me, but who is going to raise such an army ("raise" in the sense used by parents)? Clones start out life as babies. Armies are far easier to raise the old fashioned way--by recruiting or drafting naive young adults. Dulce et decorum est pro patria mori has worked well enough to send countless young men to their deaths through the ages. Why mess with success?"
con_6_4	All parents will not try to clone the same kind of individual	 All parents will not try to clone the same kind of individual "Why cloning people is a good idea". Everything 2 - "What about blue-haired blond-eyes? Well, personally, if I wanted to clone a kid there's no way they would be Aryan. No Asian couple would choose the stereotypical Western child either. No Africans would go for that Caucasian look. The concept of everyone designing the same child is in itself ridiculous, as humans have a tendency to express themselves as individually as possible. A couple would design a child like no other. Having the freedom to create any child would enhance individuality creating more unique offspring rather than less unique ones."
headline_7	Parental rights: Do parents not have a right to clone?
pro_7_1	Human cloning ends do not justify means	 Human cloning ends do not justify means President George W. Bush - "I strongly oppose human cloning, as do most Americans. We recoil at the idea of growing human beings for spare body parts or creating life for our convenience .... Even the most noble ends do not justify any means."[3]
pro_7_2	Parents that lose a child should not be assuaged with a cloned baby	Parents that lose a child should not be assuaged with a cloned baby.
con_7_1	If women have a right to reproduce, society can't say not by cloning	 If women have a right to reproduce, society can't say "not by cloning" Nathan Myhrvold. "Human Clones: Why Not? Opposition to cloning isn't just Luddism--it's racism." Slate.com. March 14, 1997 - "If humans have a right to reproduce, what right does society have to limit the means? Essentially all reproduction is done these days with medical help--at delivery, and often before. Truly natural human reproduction would mean 50 percent infant mortality and make pregnancy-related death the No. 1 killer of adult women."
con_7_2	Opponents of cloning must tolerate the practice	 Opponents of cloning must tolerate the practice. "Human Cloning is Good". Help Me.com - "Freedom sometimes means having tolerance for others and their beliefs. In our society today, some people believe there should be gun control while others do not. Everyone is free to decide what faith, or religion they will follow.  Pro cloning individuals feel that in a free society we know that we must tolerate some views that we don't agree with, this is what make our freedom so valuable, we have the right to choose."
headline_8	Family integrity: Does human cloning harm the integrity of the family?
pro_8_1	Reproductive cloning harms the integrity of the family:	Reproductive cloning harms the integrity of the family: Single people will be able to produce offspring without even the physical presence of a partner. Once born, the child will be denied the love of one parent, most probably the father. Several theologians have recognised that a child is a symbolic expression of the mutual love of its parents, and their hope for the future. This sign of love is lost when a child’s life begins in a laboratory.
pro_8_2	Cloning undermines the natural relationship between procreation and family	 Cloning undermines the natural relationship between procreation and family Pamela Schaeffer. "Special Section: Human Destiny. Many oppose human cloning". National Catholic Reporter - "The Vatican opposes cloning humans, in part, because it is a means of reproduction that, like in vitro fertilization, does not derive directly from sexual intercourse between a married man and woman. In fact, more than any other reproductive technology, cloning threatens to sever the link between sex, marriage and reproduction, and to render the male role in reproduction obsolete."
pro_8_3	Cloning treats children as objects:	Cloning treats children as objects: Children will be manufactured by an expensive technological process that is subject to quality control. The gulf between an artisan and an artefact is immense. Individuals will be able to have a child for the sake of having children, or as a symbol of status, rather than because they desire to conceive, love and raise another human being. Cloning will not only allow, but actually encourage, the commodification of people.
pro_8_4	Parents will suffer identity problems trying to raise a clone.	Parents will suffer identity problems trying to raise a clone.
pro_8_5	Human cloning turns the parent into a despot over their child	Human cloning turns the parent into a despot over their child  
pro_8_6	Cloning will involve the creation of children for predetermined roles.	Cloning will involve the creation of children for predetermined roles. A father that desires a star football player for a son may seek cloning for these purposes.  
con_8_1	Cloned babies would be loved by parents that choose to have them	 Cloned babies would be loved by parents that choose to have them There is no reason to believe that parents choosing to clone a child will not love their cloned-child as fully as they would love a procreated-child. 
con_8_2	Parental motives can't be used against cloning and not normal child-rearing	 Parental motives can't be used against cloning and not normal child-rearing Furthermore, we should not pretend that every child conceived by sexual procreation is born to wholly well-intentioned parents. The desire to have ‘a son and heir’ is common around the world but does not concern the welfare of the future child. Similarly, children are often conceived out of marital custom, in order to consolidate a relationship, or even in order to gain free accommodation from local housing authorities. Finally, many children are not intended at all, but are born as a result of unplanned pregnancies. There would be no fear of ‘accidental cloning’ that could bring a child to a parent who was unprepared, or unwilling, to love it.
con_8_3	The family integrity argument is wholly unsuited to the modern age.	The "family integrity" argument is wholly unsuited to the modern age. Society freely allows single people to reproduce sexually, whether by accident or design. Existing lawful practices such as sperm donation allow deliberate procreation without knowledge of the identity of the father. Surely it is preferable for a mother to know the genetic heritage of her offspring, rather than accept sperm from an unknown and random donor? Moreover, reproductive cloning will allow lesbian couples to have children genetically related to them both. It might be better for the welfare of the child for it to be born into a happy relationship, but the high rates of single parenthood and divorce suggest that this is not always possible.
con_8_4	Cloning is more predictable than natural reproduction	 Cloning is more predictable than natural reproduction
con_8_5	Cloning-reproduction would never compete with sex-reproduction	 Cloning-reproduction would never compete with sex-reproduction 
headline_9	Diversity: Will cloning lower genetic diversity in human populations?
pro_9_1	Human cloning reduces biological diversity in the human population	 Human cloning reduces biological diversity in the human population. "Why Environmentalists Oppose Human Cloning And Inheritable Genetic Modification". Friends of the Earth. Retrieved June 3rd, 2008 - "Ensuring Diversity & Ecosystem Survival
pro_9_2	Human cloning is a threat to the environment in terms of irreversible changes to our nature.	Human cloning is a threat to the environment in terms of irreversible changes to our nature..
con_9_1	Human clones will not reduce human biological diversity	 Human clones will not reduce human biological diversity The expense and time necessary for successful human cloning should mean that it will only be used to the benefit of the small minority of people who require the technology. The pleasure of procreation through sexual intercourse does not suggest that whole populations will prefer to reproduce asexually through cloning. The only significant lack of diversity which can be expected will be in women who suffer from a severe mitochondrial disease. They will be able to use cloning by nuclear transfer in order to avoid passing on the disease which is carried in their egg cells to any offspring. This elimination of harmful genetic traits from the gene pool is no different from the eradication of infectious disease, such as small pox, and should be welcomed.
headline_10	Infertility: Is it wrong for infertile couples to seek a cloned child?
pro_10_1	The ends don't justify the means in cloning a child.	The ends don't justify the means in cloning a child. Even if there is a utility for infertile parents, the ends (obtaining a child) don't justify the means (human cloning).
pro_10_2	By the will of nature/God infertile couples are not meant to reproduce	By the will of nature/God infertile couples are not meant to reproduce Nobody has a right to have a child. If someone is infertile, they were likely meant to remain infertile and go without a child. 
con_10_1	Cloning allows gay couples to have children of their own blood	 Cloning allows gay couples to have children of their own blood
con_10_2	Human cloning would enable infertile couples to have children	 Human cloning would enable infertile couples to have children "Human Cloning is Good". Help Me.com - "Many other individual supports believe that with cloning, infertile couples could have children. Despite getting a fair amount of publicity in the news current treatments for infertility, in terms of percentages, are not very successful. One estimate is that current infertility treatments are less than 10 percent successful. Couples go through physically and emotionally painful procedures for a small chance of having children. Many couples run out of time and money without successfully having children."
headline_11	Equality: Will human reproductive cloning lead to greater social inequality?
pro_11_1	Human cloning will increase inequalities in society	 Human cloning will increase inequalities in society "Why Environmentalists Oppose Human Cloning And Inheritable Genetic Modification". Friends of the Earth. Retrieved June 3rd, 2008 - "Justice and Equity. Many environmental organizations work for environmental and social justice and are deeply concerned about the pollution burdens that have been placed on minorities and the poor. Cloning and inheritable modification have the potential to generate greater inequalities among people and societies." 
headline_12	Value: Is human cloning unnecessary to the advancement of humanity?
pro_12_1	Human reproductive cloning is unnecessary:	Human reproductive cloning is unnecessary: The development of in vitro fertilisation and the practice of sperm donation allows heterosexual couples to reproduce where one partner is sterile. Moreover, merely 300 babies are adopted each year in the United Kingdom. It might be better for potential parents to give their love to existing babies rather than attempt to bring their own offspring into an already crowded world.
con_12_1	The desire to have one’s own child and to nurture it is wholly natural:	The desire to have one’s own child and to nurture it is wholly natural: The longing for a child genetically related to oneself existed long before biotechnology, but it is only recently that medicine has been able to satisfy it. In vitro fertilisation remains an imperfect technology. Couples typically submit to four cycles of costly treatment before producing a child. Evidently, the technique does not assist homosexual couples, couples where both partners lack gametes, or where the female partner suffers from a mitochondrial disease. Cloning would allow a child to be born to all these couples.
headline_13	Public opinion: Where does the public stand?
con_13_1	The American public opposes human cloning	The American public opposes human cloning.
con_13_2	Human reproductive cloning has been rejected by the United Nations	Human reproductive cloning has been rejected by the United Nations.
