title	Banning Muslim hijab
question	Should the Hijab be banned in schools, public buildings or society in general?
headline_1	Rights: Does government have a right to ban wearing the hijab?
pro_1_1	Religious freedom has limits; head scarves are outside of protections	 Religious freedom has limits; head scarves are outside of protections Religious freedom has some obvious limits. Religiously-endorsed death-by-stoning, for instance, does not receive the protection of freedom of religion in secular democracies. Therefore, it need only be determined that head scarves are inappropriate and socially harmful in order for it to be banned. Indeed, head scarves are an oppressive, undemocratic, and socially harmful symbol that should not, therefore, receive the protection of "freedom of religion". 
pro_1_2	Head scarves are not fundamental to Muslims expressing their faith.	Head scarves are not fundamental to Muslims expressing their faith. Head scarves are not an essential element of the Islamic faith and the connection between believers and their God. In fact, the Quran does not explicitly call for the wearing of veils. Veils are, rather, a cultural expression in the Islamic community. A ban on veils, therefore, does not fundamentally restrict the freedom of religion of Muslims.  
pro_1_3	Banning head scarves upholds equal treatment and opportunity	 Banning head scarves upholds equal treatment and opportunity Many societies are founded on secular values that do not permit the sponsorship of any religion by the state. In this climate it is important that all citizens of the state are seen as equal. If some dress differently than others, deliberately identifying themselves as members of one religion, this can harm the unity and ethos of the state. This holds particularly true for institutions of the state like schools and government offices.
pro_1_4	Muslim women opposition to veils is not adequately represented	 Muslim women opposition to veils is not adequately represented Leslie Cannold. "For equality, ban the hijab in public schools". The Age. August 31, 2005 - "It is largely Muslim men who are insisting that "their" girls and young women will be upset, concerned or made fearful by the banning of the hijab from public schools. But given such leaders are rarely democratically elected, little less by a voting base that includes women, how can we know whose interests they really represent?" 
con_1_1	A head scarf ban violates the right to freedom of religion and expression	A head scarf ban violates the right to freedom of religion and expression Kenneth Roth, executive director of Human Rights Watch, said in 2004: "The proposed law is an unwarranted infringement on the right to religious practice. For many Muslims, wearing a headscarf is not only about religious expression, it is about religious obligation."[1]  
con_1_2	Wearing head scarves is unlike religious extremes such as stonings	 Wearing head scarves is unlike religious extremes such as stonings Christina Duval. "Banning the hijab. Against the ban, for secularism." Workers Power. Feb 2004 - "In justifying the former, [Rumy] makes the error of rolling together the headscarf issue with religious practices that socialists unequivocally call for the banning of: such as death by stoning for sex outside marriage or clitoridectomy[...]Such practices are clearly examples of savage and cruel religious oppression and are imposed on the women involved. Socialists think donning the headscarf is wrong, since it is a symbol of Islam's oppression of women, but adopting the symbols and practices of oppression (even if due to family and cultural pressure) is clearly not in the same category as being physically damaged or attacked in the name of religion."
con_1_3	Wearing head scarves does no harm and violates nobody's rights	 Wearing head scarves does no harm and violates nobody's rights "France: Headscarf Ban Violates Religious Freedom". Human Rights Watch. February 27th, 2004 - "Under international law, states can only limit religious practices when there is a compelling public safety reason, when the manifestation of religious beliefs would impinge on the rights of others, or when it serves a legitimate educational function (such as prohibiting practices that preclude student-teacher interaction). Muslim headscarves, Sikh turbans, Jewish skullcaps and large Christian crosses—which are among the visible religious symbols that would be prohibited—do not pose a threat to public health, order or morals; they have no effect on the fundamental rights and freedoms of other students; and they do not undermine a school’s educational function."  
con_1_4	Wearing the Hijab is protected by religious freedom under UN Charter.	Wearing the Hijab is protected by religious freedom under UN Charter. The right to freedom of religion is enshrined in the UN charter and considered by many to be a basic human right. Some religions require special diets, others prayer at specific times. Why shouldn’t a religious mode of dress receive as much protection as these other aspects of religious freedom? Wearing head scarves is a must in Islam. Thus, government must not interfere with one's religion and the right for one to practice the religion they have professed.
con_1_5	Public bans on head scarves encourage private bans	 Public bans on head scarves encourage private bans If the government bans the wearing of head scarves in public places, what can possibly prevent private institutions from doing the exact same? The answer is nothing. Indeed, in France, where public bans have been in effect, many private companies or organizations have implemented bans on the wearing of hijabs. In other words, governments bans have created a slippery slope to widespread discrimination.  
con_1_6	Wearing the Hijab does no harm to other individuals.	Wearing the Hijab does no harm to other individuals. Religious freedom should have no boundaries, except for maiming, killing, hurting, etc.. Yet, the Hijab does no harm to other individuals, so qualifies for protection as an expression of religious freedom. 
headline_2	Secularism: Is a ban important to preserving secularism?
pro_2_1	A Muslim head scarf ban is important to preserving state secularism	 A Muslim head scarf ban is important to preserving state secularism Former French President Jacques Chirac in calling for a ban on head scarves in 2003. - "Secularity is one of the republic's great achievements. It plays a crucial role in social harmony and national cohesion. We must not allow it to be weakened."
con_2_1	A state does not jeopardize its secularism by allowing head scarves	 A state does not jeopardize its secularism by allowing head scarves "Turkey: Headscarf Ban Stifles Academic Freedom". Human Rights Watch. June 29th, 2005 - "the protection of religious freedom is fully consistent with secularism in state institutions. Accommodating different forms of religious headgear does not suggest that state authorities endorse any particular religion and does not require additional state resources."
con_2_2	France is hypocritical in head-scarf-ban secularism; funds Christian schools	 France is hypocritical in head-scarf-ban "secularism"; funds Christian schools Sharon Smith. "The racist hypocrisy behind the hijab ban" Socialist Worker. February 20, 2004 - "there is something profoundly hypocritical in banning Islamic religious symbols in the name of secularism and gender equality--while the French government continues to subsidize private education for that other globally influential misogynist religion, the Catholic Church, at a higher rate per pupil than public schools."
headline_3	Symbol? Is the Hijab an oppressive, undemocratic symbol?
pro_3_1	Headscarves symbolize and foster the oppression of women	 Headscarves symbolize and foster the oppression of women This is particularly true in countries such as Saudi Arabia or Afghanistan where it is compulsory. Often Muslim dress rules for women are seen as more severe than those for men. Inequality between men and women is a form of discrimination and liberal societies should fight all forms of discrimination.
pro_3_2	Women can better defy sexual oppression by uncovering themselves	 Women can better defy sexual oppression by uncovering themselves If men oppress women sexually, isn't it better to stare that oppression in the face, instead of playing into the hands of sexual oppressors by covering up.
pro_3_3	Muslim head scarves do not foster a respect for the female body	 Muslim head scarves do not foster a respect for the female body If women cover-up, how are men supposed to develop a respect for the female body? How are woman supposed to develop a similar respect? In fact, it is clear that men act more sexually oppressively when they never see a woman's body (because woman are veiled), and then suddenly see a woman without such a veil. Instead of fostering respect, veils foster a deprived lust and disrespect for the female body.
pro_3_4	Wearing the Hijab makes women more self-conscious, not less	 Wearing the Hijab makes women more self-conscious, not less Nadia Gaber. "Why I Won’t Veil". The Harvard Crimson. November 17, 2006 - "It’s ironic—though the justification for the hijab is to make women less preoccupied with their looks, I have never been more conscious about my appearance than I was in Egypt. Because I am of Arab descent, foreign eyes gazed more keenly at me—at how much skin I showed and how much makeup I wore—than they did at my white friends, although their U.S. passports were no bluer than mine." 
pro_3_5	The idea that women must wear headscarves to be dignified is offensive	 The idea that women must wear headscarves to be dignified is offensive The core principle of headscarves is that it protects the modesty and dignity of the woman. This is a nearly universal interpretation of the act. This is an offensive premise. It considers that the physical features of women are inherently offensive in appearance and that men are incapable of containing their sexual impulses upon seeing a woman's natural form. It holds that the only way a woman can be dignified and accepted in society is if she conceals her true identity and form. These are offensive and undemocratic principles and do not belong in a modern democracy.
pro_3_6	Headscarves falsely presume that men can't contain sexual impulses	 Headscarves falsely presume that men can't contain sexual impulses It would be sad to believe that men are incapable of containing their sexual impulses in the face of a beautiful female form. Are we to believe that men are such vile, primal sexual creatures that they cannot look past a woman's sexual form to her larger self? We would make cave-men of ourselves to believe this. 
pro_3_7	Headscarves make women sexual objects and increase predation	 Headscarves make women sexual objects and increase predation If head scarves are mainly about protecting women from the sexual impulses of men, this turns women into mere sexual objects for men. Indeed, by creating this atmosphere, head scarves have appeared to stimulate extreme crudeness and sexual predation among men in Muslim countries.
con_3_1	Head scarves aren't about oppressing women; there are good reasons	 Head scarves aren't about oppressing women; there are good reasons Rosie Healy. "Lifting the Turkish Ban on Hijab: A Secularist Responds". Mass Media. March 3rd, 20008 - "People know the secularist perspective [on hijab,]" writes Ms. Al-Zaim. "Do they know the pro-hijab, Islamist perspective?" She declines to express that perspective, but my understanding is that Muslim women cover themselves for a variety of reasons such as obedience to god, modesty, deflecting sexual attention, and maintaining their cultural identity as Muslims in day-to-day life. One young woman writing for the web forum Islam For Today identifies hijab as a "form of liberation" from the media, the fashion industry, and male criticism."
con_3_2	Many Muslim women view the veil as a means to protect their modesty and privacy.	Many Muslim women view the veil as a means to protect their modesty and privacy. Just as we would not force any women to be seen in public in her underwear if she did not feel comfortable doing so, why should a woman be forced to show her hair if she does not want to? Modesty is a personal judgement call; some are comfortable in the smallest bikini while others prefer a lot more clothing. No one but the woman herself should make that decision.
con_3_3	The Muslim veil liberates women from sexual attention.	The Muslim veil liberates women from sexual attention. Muslim women often argue that the Hijab liberates them from the sexual gaze of men. Indeed, in many cultures, men act like sexual predators toward any woman that does not conceal herself. They make cat-calls, sexually harass, and sometimes molest unveiled women. A woman has a right to protect herself from such predation with a head scarf. Such protection liberates women to act more freely and expressively, and without fear. 
con_3_4	Wearing the Muslim head scarf is an act of obedience to God.	Wearing the Muslim head scarf is an act of obedience to God. Many acts are simple reminders of our relationship with God. A good example is fasting. It could easily be called strange or even immoral self-flaggelation. But, the purpose of it is to honor and remind-one-self of God. Many women wear veils for this reason; simply as an act of faith. It provides a daily reminder to Women of their God and their willingness to sacrifice for their God. 
con_3_5	Head scarves help Muslim women maintain their cultural identity.	Head scarves help Muslim women maintain their cultural identity. There is a long and rich cultural history surrounding the Hijab. Many Muslim women wear veils in order to connect with this history and culture. 
con_3_6	Head scarves enable Muslim women to defy sexual oppressors	 Head scarves enable Muslim women to defy sexual oppressors In countries and cultures where men act as sexual predators, women use the veil as a means to defy their oppressors. Depriving women of this tool would be to disable an important tool of defiance and self-defense.
con_3_7	Wearing head scarves is often a political, not religious, act	 Wearing head scarves is often a political, not religious, act Amitai Etzioni. "Let Them Wear Scarves". Huffington Post. April 10, 2008 - "Others argue that the headscarf is not so much a religious but a political symbol, as Anne Applebaum does in Washington Post -- this only makes my point stronger. Since when do we ban people in a democracy from displaying symbols that communicate their political viewpoints -- whether these are, say, pro-gay rights ribbons, or the peace signs of those who oppose nuclear weapons?"
headline_4	Discrimination: Can a ban help fight discrimination? Or would it hurt it?
pro_4_1	Banning wearing religious symbols makes discrimination more difficult	 Banning wearing religious symbols makes discrimination more difficult "Chirac: Ban headscarves in schools". CNN.com. December 17, 2003 - "If we are talking about a star of David, the hand of Fatima or a small cross, those are acceptable, but when it's very obvious, in other words, when if they are worn people can immediately see what religious faith they belong to, that should not be accepted."
pro_4_2	Muslims in the West need to embrace culture/head-scarf-ban	 Muslims in the West need to embrace culture/head-scarf-ban Labour's Ruairi Quinn said immigrants who come to Ireland need to conform to the culture of this country. - "If people want to come into a western society that is Christian and secular, they need to conform to the rules and regulations of that country. Nobody is formally asking them to come here. In the interests of integration and assimilation, they should embrace our culture."[2]
con_4_1	Banning head scarves is an attack on Islam	 Banning head scarves is an attack on Islam 
con_4_2	Banning head scarves dehumanizes Muslims	 Banning head scarves dehumanizes Muslims 
con_4_3	Tolerance of head scarves exercises emotional compassion and peace	 Tolerance of head scarves exercises emotional compassion and peace  The Qur’an mentioned the ‘Hijab’ for the women as well as men. It is mentioned for the man in Ch. No. 24 (Surah Nur), Verse No. 30:
con_4_4	Muslim women often wear head scarves to protest racism	  Muslim women often wear head scarves to protest racism 
con_4_5	Banning the veil distracts from more pressing discrimination issues	 Banning the veil distracts from more pressing discrimination issues 
con_4_6	Banning head scarves impairs the integration of Muslim communities	 Banning head scarves impairs the integration of Muslim communities
con_4_7	A head scarf ban will disproportionately impact Muslim girls	 A head scarf ban will disproportionately impact Muslim girls 
con_4_8	A head scarf ban can hinder/prevent Muslim women from marrying	A head scarf ban can hinder/prevent Muslim women from marrying
con_4_9	Opposing Muslim head scarves is a pre-text to opposing immigration	 Opposing Muslim head scarves is a pre-text to opposing immigration
headline_5	Other symbols: Is banning other religious symbols important along-side a head scarf ban?
pro_5_1	Banning head scarves is appropriate when along with other religious symbols.	Banning head scarves is appropriate when along with other religious symbols. France has instituted such a ban on Muslim head scarves, Jewish skullcaps, and large Christian crosses in public schools. This ensures against any concerns of religious discrimination against Muslims.
con_5_1	Banning head scarves is worse than banning other religious symbols.	Banning head scarves is worse than banning other religious symbols. While some defend a ban on Muslim head scarves by pointing to bans on other religious symbols, there are important differences between these symbols. The head scarf performs an actual physical function (protecting the dignity of a woman). Crosses and skull-caps do not perform such physical functions. By depriving a woman of a head scarf, you are not merely depriving them of their symbol, but also forcing them to go without a functional religious tool.  
con_5_2	Banning other religious symbols is only a front for targeting Islam	 Banning other religious symbols is only a front for targeting Islam Sharon Smith. "The racist hypocrisy behind the hijab ban" Socialist Worker. February 20, 2004 - "To be sure, the French ban targets not just the hijab, beards and bandanas that denote Islamic affiliation, but also Jewish skullcaps and "conspicuous" Christian crosses (the fate of the Sikh turban has yet to be determined). Nevertheless, few in France--where the press has dubbed the ban "the law against the veil"--believe that the target is anything but Islam."
headline_6	Choice: Are individuals pressured in to wearing the hijab?
pro_6_1	Muslim women are pressured by social conventions to wear the Hijab	 Muslim women are pressured by social conventions to wear the Hijab Pressure comes both socially from wanting to look like other women in their community and religiously from imams and family leaders pressing for observance. This pressure limits the accuracy of the counter-claim that Muslim women have the individual "choice" and freedom to wear the Hijab.
pro_6_2	Choosing to wear head scarves merely internalizes oppression	"Choosing" to wear head scarves merely internalizes oppression "Banning the hijab". Workers Power. Feb 2004 - "It is true that many Muslim women willingly wear the veil, but even if this is an expression, or assertion of cultural, religious, and racial identity and self-pride, for example, in response to a hostile, racist environment (rigorous research needs to be done as to why exactly Muslim women in the West do this), it is nonetheless tantamount to their internalising their oppression. As such, it is an oppressive response to their oppression."
pro_6_3	Banning head scarves makes it easier for Muslim women to uncover	 Banning head scarves makes it easier for Muslim women to uncover When government sets a clear state standard against Muslim head coverings, it becomes much easier for Muslim woman - whom would rather not wear Hijabs but that are pressured to do so - to uncover.
con_6_1	A ban violates the rights of women who freely choose to wear veils	 A ban violates the rights of women who freely choose to wear veils How can it be ascertained whether a Muslim women wears a Hijab as an act of individual faith, opposed to in reaction to cultural pressures? It may be impossible to isolate the extent or limitation of "free choice" involved in this act, making it impossible to generally claim that the trend of Hijab wearing among Muslim women is culturally imposed, and against free will. It would be wrong, therefore, to attempt to confidently ban Hijab wearing on the basis of this indeterminable point.    
con_6_2	The state must allow for parental judgement on head scarves for children	 The state must allow for parental judgement on head scarves for children "France: Headscarf Ban Violates Religious Freedom". Human Rights Watch. February 27th, 2004 - "Supporters of the law have also defended the ban on the grounds that it will protect Muslim girls from being forced or pressured to wear the headscarf by their parents. Under international law, states must respect the responsibilities, rights and duties of parents to provide, in a manner consistent with the evolving capacities of the child, appropriate direction and guidance in the child’s exercise of their basic rights. 
con_6_3	Opponents should argue against head scarves, but a ban is excessive	 Opponents should argue against head scarves, but a ban is excessive It is legitimate to oppose something. Yet, the best form of protest is to simply not perform the act. To ban supporters of the hijab from wearing the head scarf goes beyond an appropriate form of protest. 
con_6_4	Pressure to wear veils is fine; cultural pressure is universal	 Pressure to wear veils is fine; cultural pressure is universal Most people are affected by the societal norms surrounding them. Fashion trends could be seen in exactly the same light as religious traditions, and could also be argued as limiting "choice" in an equivalent manner. Is it possible, subsequently, to accuse the creators of more Western fashion trends of limiting the ability of their followers to "choose" their own fashion statement? How can we isolate wearers of the Hijab as violating freedom of "choice" principles through cultural pressures, if we then allow similar cultural pressures to limit "choices" among more Western cultural expressions.
con_6_5	Muslim head-coverings help keep women safe.	Muslim head-coverings help keep women safe. Muslim women must cover their head and other parts of bodies except palm hand and face (or called aurah or aurat) to avoid any bad things to happen to them and to give protection for them.
con_6_6	Only the husband has the right to see a woman.	Only the husband has the right to see a woman. It is also the specialties for them when they get married. It would be exclusive for their husband. Only the husband can watch their 'aurat'. If not, at the end of the world, those who did not cover their 'aurat' will be punished by the God. And for those who did, they will get reward such as heaven. 
headline_7	School: Is it appropriate to ban head scarves in public schools?
pro_7_1	Separation of Church and State demands banning the hijab in public schools	 Separation of Church and State demands banning the hijab in public schools "Banning the hijab". Workers Power. Feb 2004 - "My starting point is that secularism is a fundamental pillar of socialist politics and therefore socialist organisations must have this at the heart of their programmes and campaigns. This necessitates the demand for the complete separation of the state from religion, which implies that state education must be rigorously secular (this is not to suggest that there should be a complete absence of religion from the curriculum; on the contrary, aspects of all the world's major religions should be taught - but not dogmatic, religious teaching and rituals, and certainly no privilege accorded to Christianity - as well as critiques of religion and the irreconcilability of religious 'truths' with science)."
pro_7_2	Banning head scarves in schools protects children from being forced	 Banning head scarves in schools protects children from being forced "Banning the hijab". Workers Power. Feb 2004 - "However, even whilst arguing against it, the left should support the right of women to veil themselves. But this right should not be extended to schoolgirls. [it is] a fundamental denial of the rights of a child (some argue that it is, in fact, a form of child abuse). The reality is that there will be cajoling and coercion by parents for girls as young as five to wear the hijab at an age where they will have little clue about their parents' religion (and that is why girls from non-Muslim families, who are free from this, do not wear it). Therefore, an important democratic right - equality with non-Muslim girls - is denied them."
pro_7_3	Head scarf bans in schools protects children from religious indoctrination	 Head scarf bans in schools protects children from religious indoctrination It is unfair for young women to be indoctrinated so early with religious beliefs, particularly the religious doctrines guiding the wearing of the hijab.
pro_7_4	The Hijab causes problems in schools, such as division and alienation.	The Hijab causes problems in schools, such as division and alienation. It is potentially divisive in the classroom, marking some children out as different from the others and above the rules that the school enforces for everyone else. This may lead to alienation and bullying. Full headscarves may also be impractical or dangerous in some lessons, for example PE, swimming, or in technology and science lessons where machinery is being operated.
pro_7_5	Head scarves initiate other forms of oppression in school	 Head scarves initiate other forms of oppression in school "Banning the hijab". Workers Power. Feb 2004 - "It is important to stress that veiling not only acts as a barrier to normal relations between veiled Muslim and non-Muslim girls, it is invariably the precursor to other forms of oppression: the drive to gender segregation, restrictions of veiled girls to partake in physical education, especially swimming, or indulge in dancing etc. Moreover, some parents might go further and push their daughters to completely veil themselves, that is, to wear the burqa. If this were unacceptable to opponents of the ban, then why should the hijab be acceptable? For the reasons underpinning both are the same."
con_7_1	Head scarf ban in schools deprives Muslim women of right to education	 Head scarf ban in schools deprives Muslim women of right to education Turkey's Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, whose wife and daughters observe the Islamic dress code, was quoted in a 2007 Financial Times article saying: "The right to higher education cannot be restricted because of what a girl wears."[3]
con_7_2	Discriminating against Muslim forms of child-indoctrination is wrong	 Discriminating against Muslim forms of child-indoctrination is wrong It is wrong to use a ban on Muslim head scarves as a way to discourage Muslim religious indoctrination. The State risks appearing to specifically target and discourage the Muslim faith.
con_7_3	Banning head scarves in school is an egregious state intrusion	 Banning head scarves in school is an egregious state intrusion Christina Duval. "Banning the hijab. Against the ban, for secular education." Workers Power. Feb 2004 - "Youth oppression is not only situated within the family. Under capitalism, education is not the neutral free space that Rumy and the defenders of the French Fifth republic would have us believe. The classroom does not only enlighten, it also instils discipline and allegiance to the bourgeois state. Struggles over the right to choose what to wear are not confined to confrontation with the family - the classroom has also been an important arena for this struggle. To deny the right of Muslim girls to wear the headscarf if they so choose, in the name of secularism, is to side with the oppressive side of French bourgeois republicanism."
con_7_4	Banning head scarves in school won't break oppression	 Banning head scarves in school won't "break oppression" Christina Duval. "Banning the hijab. Against the ban, for secular education". Workers Power. Feb 2004 - "Will banning the headscarf enable those young women who don't want to wear it break free from their oppression? No, since outside of school they will still be obliged to don the headscarf. Even worse, some may be taken out of school - as has already happened in France - where they will be even more isolated from progressive ideas. Unsurprisingly, calls for separate schools have increased within the Muslim community since the publication of the Stasi report."
con_7_5	Banning head scarves in school stigmatizes Muslim communities	 Banning head scarves in school stigmatizes Muslim communities Dalil Boubakeur, president of the French Council of the Muslim Faith, told Reuters, "A law on religious symbols in the school environment could stigmatize a whole community." The issue is that it gives the appearance that head scarves are, generally, bad. Those that wear head scarves outside school will be seen, to a greater extent, as acting immorally. This will alienate and stigmatize Muslim communities.
con_7_6	Schools make up problems about the hijab as an excuse for intolerance of Muslims.	Schools make up problems about the hijab as an excuse for intolerance of Muslims. In a multicultural society, students should be aware of the different religious practices and cultural traditions of their classmates, and be taught to understand and respect these. Without such respect, Muslims and other groups with distinctive dress, such as Orthodox Jews and Sikhs, will be driven out of mainstream education and forced to educate their children separately, which will really create divisions and alienation. As for the so-called safety issues, most classroom accidents occur when loose, long hair gets caught in machinery or in a flame - not a problem when hair is held in place under a headscarf!
headline_8	Security: Does Hijab wearing undermine security and intelligence efforts?
pro_8_1	Veil-wearing can make it very hard to identify individuals.	Veil-wearing can make it very hard to identify individuals. In the current security climate this poses a problem for many potential terrorist targets like banks, government offices etc. Faces are hard to check against ID photos and CCTV systems are rendered ineffective. 
pro_8_2	The Hijab disguises key features of an individual more than hats.	The Hijab disguises key features of an individual more than hats. These forms of decoration do not render impossible identification techniques, whereas a head scarf has this potential. The degree of the disguise is the important characteristic. 
con_8_1	Non-Muslim items of clothing conceal features of identity too.	Non-Muslim items of clothing conceal features of identity too. Many other things, like motorbike helmets, baseball caps and beards can also make identification difficult, yet they are not banned. Almost all Muslim women would be happy to remove their head coverings for female security officers in a private side room. All these difficulties can be overcome relatively easily if a little consideration is shown.
con_8_2	Head scarf bans can cause resentment, violence, and even war	 Head scarf bans can cause resentment, violence, and even war 
con_8_3	Head scarf ban has prevented Muslim women from obtaining passports	 Head scarf ban has prevented Muslim women from obtaining passports 
headline_9	Fundamentalism: Does banning the Hijab help discourage religious fundamentalism?
pro_9_1	Head scarves are symbols of Muslim militancy	 Head scarves are symbols of Muslim militancy Shada Islam. "Headscarf Ban Misses the Point". YaleGlobal. January 30th, 2004 "many are equally afraid of the veil as a symbol of rising militancy among Muslim communities."
pro_9_2	Approving of the Hijab approves its fundamentalist principles.	Approving of the Hijab approves its fundamentalist principles. Approving of Muslim head coverings in society erroneously cements the Hijab as an essential tenet of Islam in the minds of non-Muslims as well as believers. However many different schools of Islam exist and as on other issues, they often disagree how to interpret the Koran’s dress prescriptions. Moderate interpretations accept modest forms of modern dress while severe interpretations require full covering with the Burka or similar veil. Banning the veil furthers the cause of moderate interpretations and prevents the entrenchment of severe interpretations.
con_9_1	Head scarves are not symbols of Muslim extremism	 Head scarves are not symbols of Muslim extremism 
con_9_2	Even if veils are extremist symbols, a ban won't help combat it	 Even if veils are extremist symbols, a ban won't help combat it 
con_9_3	Banning head coverings provokes greater extremes of fundamentalism.	Banning head coverings provokes greater extremes of fundamentalism. Framing laws to ban only Islamic forms of dress could be considered an attack on one religion. Feeling under attack could cause the Islamic community to close off into itself. They could set up religious schools where their children can dress as they want them to and not mix with children from other faiths. These effects could never be good for the integration of society and would further the influence of extremists. Internationally, the perceived attack on Islamic values would inflame wider Muslim opinion, feed conspiracy theories and add to the dangerous feeling that there is a clash of civilisations.
headline_10	Backlash: Can banning head scarves avoid Muslim-community backlash?
pro_10_1	Banning Muslim head scarves will not cause fundamentalist backlashes	 Banning Muslim head scarves will not cause fundamentalist backlashes "Banning the hijab". Workers Power. Feb 2004 - "The third major argument against the ban is that there will be an Islamic backlash as this will drive Muslims into the arms of the religious right. Again, no evidence is ever provided for this assertion. The reality is that within the Muslim ghettos, their grip is already powerful - and it is precisely because of the threat to their influence that they have protested so vehemently over the issue. They know that a secular education is a major threat to their power and control, especially control over ideas. Their indoctrination starts very early - about three years of age - as they systematically try and break children from critical thinking."
pro_10_2	Allowing head scarves would foster a greater clash of civilizations	 Allowing head scarves would foster a greater clash of civilizations Shada Islam. "Headscarf Ban Misses the Point". YaleGlobal. January 30th, 2004 - "Belgian Foreign Minister Louis Michel warned recently of "the development of a sort of pseudo-fundamentalist trend which could end up encouraging a miniature clash of civilizations in Belgium." Michel has also denounced the veil as a symbol of the submission of women."
con_10_1	Bans on Muslim head scarves cause a backlash from the Muslim community	 Bans on Muslim head scarves cause a backlash from the Muslim community When Muslims are told that they can't exercise a certain element of their faith, they will revel from their oppressors. This is a natural reaction and should be expected.
con_10_2	Many Muslims hide opposition to veil ban to avoid attacks from non-Muslims	 Many Muslims hide opposition to veil ban to avoid attacks from non-Muslims Christina Duval. "Banning the hijab. Against the ban, for secular education". Workers Power. Feb 2004 - "The quoted 48 per cent of Muslims in France who are in favour of the ban - even if we take opinion polls as accurate reflections of real feelings - has to be put in the context of this offensive, where standing up to this ban leads to Muslims being branded anti-Republic, anti-French and part of the "Islamic threat". In other words, there's no reason to believe that Muslims supporting the ban are less reactionary than those wanting to visibly show their solidarity with the victims of imperialism's wars."
headline_11	Public opinion: Is there public support for banning head scarves?
pro_11_1	The French strongly support banning Muslim head scarves.	The French strongly support banning Muslim head scarves. A 2003 poll in France showed 69 percent favor a law banning the wearing of head scarves and other religious symbols.[4]
