title	Single-payer universal health care
question	Is single-payer health care a good idea?
headline_1	Analogous services: Is universal health care analogous to other government services?
pro_1_1	The government funds fire-stations, why not universal health care?	 The government funds fire-stations, why not universal health care? The government taxes citizens to fund and provide numerous services universally, including policemen and firemen. These services are comparable to physician services in many ways, particularly in the sense that they help protect the life, safety, or health of citizens. Why shouldn't health care also be provided universally through the same means - taxes?
pro_1_2	Health is often out of an individual's control; like fires.	Health is often out of an individual's control; like fires. You will see that the other side of this argument makes a distinction between things that an individual can control and those he/she cannot.  The argument is that fire and police protection are things beyond the control of individuals, but that healthcare is not.  This argument is seriously flawed.  Many healthcare issues are very much out of the control of individuals.  Consider a bus accident.  Many accidents are out of the control of individuals. While many accidents are a result of an individual being stupid or not being careful, so are many fires. There is no real distinction here.  Either you should be opposed to fire/police protection and universal healthcare, or should support both.  Picking one is a logical inconsistency.
con_1_1	Health problems are more about individual choices than fires and crime.	Health problems are more about individual choices than fires and crime. While many people compare health care to police stations and fire stations, they are not the same services. Health care is largely about providing a service to the individual that compensates, often, for poor individual choices. Fire stations and police departments, on the other hand, provide services to a community and focus on protecting individuals against things they have no control over (crime and fires). The differences are very significant in regard to what the state is obligated to provide. The state is obligated to protect citizens from one-another. But, the state is not obligated to protect citizens from themselves. Universal health care is wrongheaded to the extent that it involves protecting individuals from themselves. 
con_1_2	Whether universal health care is analogous to other services is inconsequential.	Whether universal health care is analogous to other services is inconsequential. Whether universal health care is analogous or a legitimate burden on tax payers does not answer whether a universal system provides the results proponents argue.
headline_2	Choice: Does universal health care deprive some choice? Is this OK?
pro_2_1	When the wealthy must use public health care, the system improves	 When the wealthy must use public health care, the system improves If the wealthy are not allowed to buy better health insurance, and are forced to use public single-payer health care, they come to realize that the only way to ensure good care is to pressure for good universal health care. As a result of the wealthy pressuring for improvements, all individuals of all classes will enjoy better health care. 
pro_2_2	Many single-payer systems give patients free choice of practitioners.	Many single-payer systems give patients free choice of practitioners. In some countries with socialized medicine, such as the UK, patients are offered a choice of general practitioner, all of whom are self-employed or work in private partnerships employing all practice nurses, doctors and clerical staff. In addition, some hospital services are sub-contracted to the private sector, so that patients can choose from a range of providers International comparisons of quality of care and health outcomes generally rank the UK above the U.S.
con_2_1	People have a right to pay more for better health care	 People have a right to pay more for better health care Froma Harrop. "Canada's the wrong model for universal health care". Seattle Times. February 28th, 2007 - "There's also the freedom argument. People don't want to be told that they can't spend their own money on goods that would benefit them — and who can blame them?"
con_2_2	Universal health care will have rules that decrease patient flexibility	 Universal health care will have rules that decrease patient flexibility "Should the Government Provide Free Universal Health Care for All Americans?" Balanced Politics.org - "Government-controlled health care would lead to a decrease in patient flexibility.  At first glance, it would appear universal health care would increase flexibility. After all, if government paid for everything under one plan, you could in theory go to any doctor. However, some controls are going to have to be put in to keep costs from exploding. For example, would "elective" surgeries such as breast implants, wart removal, hair restoration, and lasik eye surgery be covered? [...] The compromises that result will put in controls that limit patient options. The universal system in Canada forces patients to wait over 6 months for a routine pap smear. Canada residents will often go to the U.S. or offer additional money to get their health care needs taken care of."
headline_3	Needy: Is free health care important for those in dire need?
pro_3_1	Free, universal health care helps the unhealthy in times of need.	Free, universal health care helps the unhealthy in times of need. When an individual is sick, they shouldn't have to think about how to pay for their treatment. In free, universal health care systems, when one is sick, they are simply told to rest and get better. This is essential for proper healing. Conversely, in a non-free-universal-health-care system, a sick person is required to figure out how to pay for their health care, rather than simply focusing on getting better. The stresses this causes hampers healing. 
pro_3_2	It is wrong to make more vulnerable people pay more for insurance	 It is wrong to make more vulnerable people pay more for insurance The modus operandi of the insurance industry is that the vulnerable (people of higher risk of becoming ill) pay more for health insurance. But, this is unfair and contrary to the higher moral principles upon which societies should be founded. Society should strive to defend and care for the needy and vulnerable, instead of subjecting them to a system that punishes them for their disadvantages.
pro_3_3	Unacceptable to leave health care of millions to rare charity orgs/docs.	Unacceptable to leave health care of millions to rare charity orgs/docs. It is morally unacceptable to leave the health care of millions of American who cannot afford to pay insurance to the hands of the few rare doctors and charity health care services. Also, charity health services would not have enough equipment and funds to treat expensive, life-threatening diseases like cancers.
con_3_1	Single-payer systems make it harder to get care when it's most needed	 Single-payer systems make it harder to get care when it's most needed Delays are a common feature of single-payer systems. This means that, when a person is sick and most needs an appointment, they may be unable to get one.
con_3_2	A right to health care is not necessary in taking care of sick patients.	A right to health care is not necessary in taking care of sick patients. Indigent patients have been taken care of by physicians with dignity and compassion in the name of genuine charity, pro bono. This model can provide adequate care to the needy. And, of course, this model can be expanded out further, if need be, to aid the needy.
headline_4	Human rights: Is health care a human right?
pro_4_1	Health care is a basic human right or entitlement	 Health care is a basic human right or entitlement Health is fundamental to the preservation of all other individual rights. If one is sick in a hospital bed, they cannot be said to have equal opportunity or the ability to exercise free speech and religion. And, of course, one cannot pursue happiness if they are in a hospital bed. This is why health must be considered a basic human right.
pro_4_2	Universal health care protects healthy citizens from many health risks	Universal health care protects healthy citizens from many health risks. If citizens have a right to be healthy, they are due some protections from the sickly. By providing for the sickly, government is helping protect the rights of the healthy.
pro_4_3	Health care is considered a right in international law.	Health care is considered a right in international law. Article 25 of The UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights enumerates medical care as a universal right.
pro_4_4	Universal health care is a social good, not merely an economic good	 Universal health care is a social good, not merely an economic good Universal health care generally decreases human misery and increases human welfare. It is, therefore, a social good, not merely an economic good. In general, the ability to afford something does not play a role in whether it is just or not. If there is a conflict between life and money life should prevail because it is a right while money is a want not a need. 
pro_4_5	Universal health care is a legitimate burden on the tax payer.	Universal health care is a legitimate "burden" on the tax payer. People pay for public utilities such as road and people pay for education as well. But do people who don't drive recklessly ask for money back when roads are damaged? Do people who send their children to private school ask for all their money back? We place this burden on the state because of equality of opportunity. No man should be denied the right to live his life.
pro_4_6	Universal healthcare helps foster greater equality across classes.	Universal healthcare helps foster greater equality across classes. In the United States, the poor commonly cannot afford health care. Universal health care helps them get the care that they need. Without health care, the poor are more vulnerable and have a harder time achieving their goals. This violates their right to equal opportunity. 
con_4_1	Universal health care violates individual freedom and responsibility	 Universal health care violates individual freedom and responsibility It is important that individuals be treated as free moral agents, accountable to their own actions, and not held accountable to the actions of others. Universal health care holds some individuals accountable for the actions of others.    
con_4_2	Free, universal health care is an illegitimate positive right	 Free, universal health care is an illegitimate "positive" right. The main premises here is that "rights" should only protect individuals from harm from others and allow them certain freedoms, but a right to universal health care entails individuals burdening other members of society (possibly violating the liberties of innocents) for things that are perceived as needed or desirable. The extreme of this argument is the circumstance in which a careless smoker is given the "right" to burden others for their expensive health care costs. 
con_4_3	The necessity of medical care does not make it a right.	The necessity of medical care does not make it a right. Food, for example, is not considered a right, and companies are allowed to sell it, as well as to withhold it from those that need it but can't afford it. This is the right of grocery stores to do, and receives no complaint from society in general.
con_4_4	People leading healthy lives will be burdened by the unhealthy	 People leading healthy lives will be burdened by the unhealthy It is not fair for those that lead healthy lives to have to pay for those that lead unhealthy ones. Those that make decisions to smoke cigarettes and eat excessively should pay the consequences. 
con_4_5	People should pay only for health services they themselves receive	 People should pay only for health services they themselves receive Why should one person pay for the health services of another person? With the possible exception of life-threatening circumstances; isn't it better that individuals pay for the services they receive. 
con_4_6	Securing a right to universal health means impeding on other rights	 Securing a "right" to universal health means impeding on other rights Providing universal health care means increasing costs to certain taxpayers. This in itself impedes on certain freedoms and rights. Securing one right by impeding on other is illegitimate.
con_4_7	Universal health care systems suffer from inequality of care	 Universal health care systems suffer from inequality of care Some studies have found that universal health care systems are vulnerable to socio-economic inequalities in the care provided. 
con_4_8	Government-funded universal health care would violate patient privacy	 Government-funded universal health care would violate patient privacy - Sue Blevins. "Universal Health Care Won't Work -- Witness Medicare". Cato Institute. 2001. - "Currently, many Americans choose to pay privately for health services to maintain their medical privacy. However, a single-payer health plan would eliminate that option and all citizens would be forced to give up their ability to maintain a confidential doctor-patient relationship. Just look at what has happened with Medicare.
con_4_9	Whether health care is a right under i-law is inconsequential.	Whether health care is a right under i-law is inconsequential.  The mere act that a UN body on Human Rights has added that to their charter is not definitive of anything. Using it as an argument fails as it's only an appeal to authority.
con_4_10	Whether universal health care is a legitimate burden on the tax payer should be considered inconsequential.	Whether universal health care is a legitimate "burden" on the tax payer should be considered inconsequential. Since health care is currently 1/7th of the US Economy, simply asking whether the tax payer can be burdened to help provide others with health care does nothing to ask whether allowing more government control will end with the results proponents predict.
con_4_11	Whether universal health care is a social good is inconsequential.	Whether universal health care is a social good is inconsequential. Again, this question's answer has no bearing on whether a universal system can provide the level of service proponents claim.
con_4_12	It is impossible to answer whether universal health care fosters greater equality.	It is impossible to answer whether universal health care fosters greater equality. Since the word equality necessitates a value judgment as to what is "equal" when it comes to health care and class status, a universal definition is not possible.  For instance - would it be equal if no one had access to MRI's? If only 80% of those requiring an MRI could get it - what would determine how to define those individuals "equally"?
con_4_13	Government-funded universal health care is no right	 Government-funded universal health care is no right Anthony Randazzo. "Questioning the "Right" to Health Care". Reason Foundation. 2009. - "People sometimes argue in favor of a universal human right to health care by saying that health care is different from all other human goods or products. It is supposedly an important precondition of life itself. This is wrong: There are several other, much more important preconditions of human existence, such as food, shelter and clothing...."
headline_5	Uninsured: Do large numbers of uninsured give cause to universal health care?
pro_5_1	Most uninsured simply can't afford it; it's not a choice	 Most uninsured simply can't afford it; it's not a choice Kao-Ping Chua, "Arguments and counterarguments about universal health care". AMSA - "It's the uninsured's fault that they're uninsured. 8 out of 10 of the uninsured work or come from working families. They play by the rules, work hard just like the rest of Americans, and yet they can't get insurance from the employer because it's not offered, or they can't afford it if it is offered. Is that their fault?"
pro_5_2	Universal care would protect doctors/hospitals from free-loaders	 Universal care would protect doctors/hospitals from free-loaders Uncompensated care is a problem for hospitals and doctors. In a single-payer system, doctors would not be vulnerable to free-loading (as rare as willful free-loading is).
pro_5_3	Universal health care is not welfare; its benefits are diverse/widespread	 Universal health care is not welfare; its benefits are diverse/widespread Universal health care is about cutting costs, streamlining patient care, simplifying care, and providing high quality health care to all citizens. The benefits are far to diverse to pigeon-hole universal health care as just "welfare".
pro_5_4	It is a myth that the uninsured are being provided for now	 It is a myth that the uninsured are being provided for now While some argue that the uninsured being provided for currently with access to emergency rooms and social programs, it is false to claim that this is a substitute for these individuals actually having health insurance.  
pro_5_5	The well insured also face risks without universal health care	 The well insured also face risks without universal health care The uninsured are not the only concern when a society lacks universal health care. The insured are subject to major costs and risks, for instance when they are fired from a job and lose their employer-provide health insurance.
con_5_1	If people are uninsured, that's their choice	 If people are uninsured, that's their choice "Against Universal Coverage". National Review Online. June 21, 2007 - "Some people, especially young and healthy people, may choose not to buy health insurance even when it is cheaper[...]So what should the government do about the holdouts? Leave them alone. It’s a free country."
con_5_2	Many uninsured are lazy free-loaders who don't deserve care	Many uninsured are lazy free-loaders who don't deserve care Many uninsured are simply lazy, and believe they can get a free ride off of the system. These people do not deserve free, universal care from the system. 
con_5_3	Universal health care would amount to welfare for the uninsured.	Universal health care would amount to welfare for the uninsured. The government should not create a health care system that is aimed primarily at helping the poor and uninsured. As such, it becomes merely another wealth-transfer program.
con_5_4	Many uninsured can easily afford it so should not receive sympathy	 Many uninsured can easily afford it so should not receive sympathy A significant proportion of the uninsured can easily afford insurance. They choose not to get it for reasons other than their means (i.e., their laziness). 
con_5_5	The uninsurance problem should be solved by less, not more government	 The uninsurance problem should be solved by less, not more government Lawrence R. Huntoon, MD, PhD. "Universal Health Coverage --- Call It Socialized Medicine". Association of American Physicians and Surgeons. 2000. - "Collectively, the uninsured pay about $17.1 billion in extra taxes each year because they do not receive the same tax break as insured people with similar income... Where, we must ask, is the compassion for these overtaxed, hard-working people? This is clearly a government-created problem. What we don't need is more government (nationalized health care) to "fix it." What we need is to get government out of our wallets so people can have their own money needed to purchase and own their own health insurance."
con_5_6	Do large numbers of uninsured give cause to universal health care?	Do large numbers of uninsured give cause to universal health care? No, as it does nothing to answer how many would be without in a hypothetical universal system.  For instance, what if we knew that instead of 50 million uninsured, we would end up with 60 million uninsured due to additional inefficiencies and failure to predict actual cost? 
headline_6	Socialized medicine: Is it wrong to call single-payer systems socialized medicine?
pro_6_1	Single-payer systems involve government paying for private services	 Single-payer systems involve government paying for private services Most single-payer systems in Europe, as well as ones proposed in the United States (building on Medicare), involve the government paying for the insurance of individuals. This means that individuals would still go to private hospitals and doctors. The only difference is that the government-funded insurance pays for services instead of the money coming from your own insurance company.
pro_6_2	Rationing already exist in the US; universal health care won't change this	 Rationing already exist in the US; universal health care won't change this "Single Payer FAQ". Physicians for a National Health Program. Retrieved May 30th, 2008 - "The U.S. already rations care. Rationing in U.S. health care is based on income: if you can afford care, you get it; if you can’t, you don’t."
pro_6_3	A single-payer system will not cause government to intrude in medical decisions	 A single-payer system will not cause government to intrude in medical decisions There is nothing in universal health care that would indicate that the government would intrude on the medical decisions of citizens. 
con_6_1	Single-payer health care is socialized medicine	 Single-payer health care is "socialized medicine" Lenin said, "medicine is the keystone in the arch of socialism." Government should not be in control of medicine and should generally not be in too many features of our lives. It is both inefficient and an intrusion on our fundamental rights.
con_6_2	Universal health care leads to rationing.	Universal health care leads to rationing. Medical resources are rationed in socialized systems so that some people are either denied care or have to wait for it. If a person is "rationed out" of the public health care service (perhaps because the treatment is not considered effective or cost effective enough to warrant intervention) they will be able seek alternative treatment in the private sector. If they cannot afford private care, they may have to go without.
con_6_3	Government intrudes in medical decisions in a single-payer system.	Government intrudes in medical decisions in a single-payer system. Government will involve itself in decisions between doctors and patients under a single-payer system.
con_6_4	Universal health care creates dependencies on government	 Universal health care creates dependencies on government Whenever the government provides free services to individuals, a dependency is created. Dependency is an unhealthy mind-set, and can cause problems down the line.
con_6_5	Is it wrong to call single-payer systems socialized medicine? is another inconsequential question.	"Is it wrong to call single-payer systems socialized medicine?" is another inconsequential question.  It's answer is meaningless to which system provides the most benefits to the most people.  It's a semantic argument which will hang more on specific definitions or words that anything resembling rational health care debate.  Having said that - the answer is "yes".  Socializing anything involves taking individual decisions and "socializing" any negative effects to the community instead of limiting it to the individual.
headline_7	Physicians: Is free, universal health care fair to physicians?
pro_7_1	The majority of doctors in the US support universal health care	 The majority of doctors in the US support universal health care A 2008 survey of over 2,000 American doctors found that 59 percent support legislation to establish a national health insurance program, while 32 percent said they opposed it, researchers reported in the journal Annals of Internal Medicine[1]
pro_7_2	Universal health care can actually strengthen doctor pay	 Universal health care can actually strengthen doctor pay If there are more insured patients within a universal health care system, more people will seek health care. As such, there will be more paying patients in a universal health care system, which will result in more income for doctors. Doctors will also spend less time on paper work, be more efficient, service more patients, and so make more money. 
pro_7_3	Single-payer systems insure individuals, but don't restrict doctors	 Single-payer systems insure individuals, but don't restrict doctors A universal health care system does not mean that the private market should be abolished. Doctors can chooses to operate private practices in a two-tier system. This will attract consumers who require either more personal service, those who know or want a personal doctor, and those who want better quality of care than the public system provides.
pro_7_4	Universal health care grounds doctors in professionalism, not commercialism.	Universal health care grounds doctors in professionalism, not commercialism. Doctors are currently businessmen that sell health services. But, realizing that this is not a good model for dealing people's lives and health, many doctors see universal health care as a way to better root their profession in professionalism instead of this commercialism. 
con_7_1	A right to health care violates the rights of physicians	 A right to health care violates the rights of physicians One cannot have a right to other people's services. Does a physician not have the free right of association and contract with patients? Why would physicians be forced to perform free or government-set prices for their labor? Why shouldn't they be able to charge market value for their services? Did they enter into their practices with the understanding that they would not be able to charge fair market value? No. They are generally service providers like any other that expect fair, market-based compensation. Universal health care would deprive physicians of this freedom to charge market-value by imposing government pricing on their services, almost certainly at a discounted rate. 
con_7_2	Universal health care will cut physician cash-flow and disrupt living-standards.	Universal health care will cut physician cash-flow and disrupt living-standards. It is important to recognize that many private physicians have oriented their private practices around a certain level of cash-flow. They have rented office space at a certain level, taken out mortgages at a certain level, and sent their kids to private schools all on the assumption that their existing cash-flow in their private practices would continue into the future. It is unfair to suddenly and dramatically curtail this cash-flow and force physicians to re-adjust their lives accordingly. For some, this will be impossible or unbearable.
con_7_3	Universal health care would lower rewards so reduce quality of physicians	 Universal health care would lower rewards so reduce quality of physicians With fewer financial incentives, fewer individuals would decide to become physicians in the first place. Talent would be lost from the industry and the quality of doctors and health care would fall. 
con_7_4	Single-payer health care over-loads doctors and burns them out	 Single-payer health care over-loads doctors and burns them out Because more people seek care, doctors in a universal health care environment often are over-loaded. Hoping to meet their patients needs, they work over-time. Yet, by doing this, they often burn out and leave their practice early, exacerbating the problem even further.
headline_8	Quality: Does free, universal health care provide superior care?
pro_8_1	For-profit insurance companies often put patients at risk to cut costs	 For-profit insurance companies often put patients at risk to cut costs - Health insurance claims are considered a "loss" for profit insurance companies. These companies are designed to maximize profits by cutting costs. How can these companies act in the best interests of their patients if their incentive structure is designed to minimize health coverage?
pro_8_2	Insurance companies screen out those that need health care the most	 Insurance companies screen out those that need health care the most Insurance companies have a interest in maximizing profits that drives them to screen out individuals that are unhealthy, old, and "high-risk". These are the people that need health care the most, and the insurance industry has a direct interest in making it difficult or more expensive for them to obtain health insurance.
pro_8_3	Universal health care systems incentivize improving patient health.	Universal health care systems incentivize improving patient health. Many free universal health care systems provide incentives to doctors to improve the health of their patients. This contrasts with for-profit health care systems that do not provide financial incentives to doctors to improve the health of their patients, largely because healthier patients would mean lower profits. 
pro_8_4	Universal health care will allow doctors to concentrate on patients	 Universal health care will allow doctors to concentrate on patients In private and managed health care networks, doctors typically have to check with insurance companies before they perform a service. Such a system does not relate to the patients needs, but corresponds only to financial considerations.
pro_8_5	Universal health care allows investments in longer-term patient relationships.	Universal health care allows investments in longer-term patient relationships. This happens because there is a long term relationship with the patient and the preservation of records has long term benefits. Investment in IT is one often cited example where health care providers in socialized systems have access to electronic records of patients tests online and where computer systems can check for example incompatible drug combinations and that drugs are administered to the right patient. Some for profit systems find this investment hard to justify because the provider-patient relationship is not guaranteed to last long enough to justify the investment. 
pro_8_6	Universal health care decreases the likelihood of health related problems.	Universal health care decreases the likelihood of health related problems. The single most destructive issue regarding health care in America is the lack of preventative care. Patients wait until their disease progresses to a dangerous level before they seek care because otherwise they can not afford medical cost. Universal health care offers them access, thus increasing the patient's incentive to seek care when the health threat is minimal, and in the long run reducing the burden to the state.
con_8_1	The markets are better at providing quality; same with health care.	The markets are better at providing quality; same with health care. The markets and competition generally help produce higher quality goods for the least money (the highest value). The same applies to health care. 
con_8_2	Government-mandated procedures would reduce doctor flexibility/quality	 Government-mandated procedures would reduce doctor flexibility/quality "Should the Government Provide Free Universal Health Care for All Americans?" Balanced Politics.org - "Government-mandated procedures will likely reduce doctor flexibility and lead to poor patient care.  When government controls things, politics always seep into the decision-making. Steps will have to be taken to keep costs under control. Rules will be put in place as to when doctors can perform certain expensive tests or when drugs can be given. Insurance companies are already tying the hands of doctors somewhat. Government influence will only make things worse, leading to decreased doctor flexibility and poor patient care."
con_8_3	Quality of health care is much worse under universal health care.	Quality of health care is much worse under universal health care. According to Reuters in London, one in 10 patients admitted to National Health Service hospitals in Britain is unintentionally harmed and almost a million safety incidents, more than 2,000 of which were fatal, were recorded last year, according to a report on July 6, 2006. Such figures were "terrifying enough", the report by parliament's public accounts committee said, but the reality may be worse because of what it called "substantial under-reporting" of serious incidents and deaths in the NHS
con_8_4	IT investments do not require government intervention.	IT investments do not require government intervention.  Some have argued that IT enhancements in a universal system will provide efficiency improvements.  Most technological advancements which includes universal IT standards for online financial transactions, messenger protocols, FTP protocols, and many, many others have been standardized within the industries without government intervention.
con_8_5	Lack of preventative care does not significantly contribute to life expectancy or quality of life.	Lack of preventative care does not significantly contribute to life expectancy or quality of life.  Most of what determines length and quality of life (excluding human issues such as traffic accidents, homicides...) is genetics and life style choices (eating/exercise).  Early detection will certainly weigh heavily on life expectancy for certain diseases, but no amount of "prevention" will stop cancer if you genes are highly susceptible.  As most people know, most doctor's visits end with "take this and call me if it doesn't get better" which should hardly be seen as "preventative" of anything.
headline_9	Prevention: Is free universal health care important to preventive care?
pro_9_1	Free universal health care motivates people to seek preventive care	 Free universal health care motivates people to seek preventive care Preventing illnesses before they arise is a very important strategy in public health. Universal health care encourages people to seek preventive treatments because it is free. This cuts health care costs substantially down the line.
pro_9_2	Government has a cost incentive to invest in preventive care	 Government has a cost incentive to invest in preventive care Paul Krugman, Robin Wells. "The Health Care Crisis and What to Do About It". New York Times Review of Books. Volume 53, Number 5 · March 23, 2006 - "The VA also invests heavily and systematically in preventive care, because unlike private health care providers it can expect to realize financial benefits from measures that keep its clients out of the hospital."
con_9_1	Better technologies and treatments in private health care aids prevention.	Better technologies and treatments in private health care aids prevention. Private health care societies are known for having better innovation and higher investment in equipment and high-end treatments. These treatments can be a part of prevention or early treatment, and can have better results than what exists in universal health care systems. 
con_9_2	Higher-end treatment is important; sometimes you can't prevent illness.	Higher-end treatment is important; sometimes you can't prevent illness. With higher-end treatments in privatized health care societies, treatment is often superior. For those that will contract illnesses or cancers regardless of any preventative measures they take, such high-end treatment is welcome. 
headline_10	Innovation: Do single-payer systems support medical innovation?
pro_10_1	Medical innovation has little to do with investment and profit	 Medical innovation has little to do with investment and profit Jonathan Cohn. "Creative Destruction. The best case against universal health care." The New Republic. November 12, 2007 - "[...]The development of DBS was one part basic knowledge--an understanding of how Parkinson's works and how the brain responds to electrical stimulation--and one part sheer luck. Profits, on the other hand, had relatively little to do with it. ."
pro_10_2	Most investment in medical innovation does not come from companies	 Most investment in medical innovation does not come from companies Private companies make up a smaller portion of the total investment in medical innovation. This means that a single-payer health care system would not see a major reduction in funding for medical innovation. Depending on how the system is designed, it could even see an increase in such investment.
pro_10_3	Profit interests corrupt investments in medical innovation	 Profit interests corrupt investments in medical innovation Drug and medical companies are driven, in large part, by the bottom-line of profits. Their investments in new drugs and medical innovations are driven by these interests. But, what is likely to make the most money is often at odds with public and patient interests. 
con_10_1	Single-payer health care hinders medical investment and innovation	 Single-payer health care hinders medical investment and innovation The primary cause of this is a reduction in economic incentives for innovation. In general, the only way that people will take the time, energy, and risks involved with innovation is if there are substantial returns for their investment. This notion underpins the markets and capitalism generally, but is undermined by universal health care. Universal health care, therefore, could be expected to see fewer innovations and medical advancements.  
con_10_2	Under investment in single-payer system leads to capacity shortages	Under investment in single-payer system leads to capacity shortages A lack of willingness to invest in expensive technology leads to shortages in areas such as MRI scanning. Some would argue that only the price mechanism in free market health care can allocate resources efficiently and that political pressure often leads to shortages in socialized systems.
headline_11	Standards: Would universal health care set a good standard of care?
pro_11_1	Universal health care creates a universal standard of care	 Universal health care creates a universal standard of care Nathan Newman. "Medical Malpractice and Universal Health Care". Progressive Populist. October 01, 2002 - "The other advantage of universal health care is that it creates a clear standard of care. What government pays for becomes the reasonable standard of care, a standard that can be debated democratically at appropriations time for the health care budget rather than haggled for erratically in the courts."
con_11_1	Government will set an inferior standard of health care	 Government will set an inferior standard of health care Froma Harrop. "Canada's the wrong model for universal health care". Seattle Times. February 28th, 2007 - "Private competition also helps assure quality. Without an alternative, the monopolistic system becomes an "uncontested standard" that may be inferior."
headline_12	Delays: Do universal health care systems address concerns of delays?
pro_12_1	It is a myth that the United States' private system has fewer delays	It is a myth that the United States' private system has fewer delays In the United States, delays are often caused by insurance companies trying to save money. 
pro_12_2	Public health care is good; it just receives more scrutiny/criticism	 Public health care is good; it just receives more scrutiny/criticism Public health care systems receive more scrutiny by the public because they are publicly accountable. This often gives the impression that these systems are worse. But, this impression is simply a bi-product of the higher level of scrutiny these systems receive. 
pro_12_3	Single-payer health care reduces complexities faced by patients	 Single-payer health care reduces complexities faced by patients Insurance companies often make life as difficult as possible for patients through complicated rules and qualifications. Again, profit-interests motivate this because it makes it less likely that patients will seek a claim. This is all very stressful and time-consuming for patients. A single-payer system would simplify things.
con_12_1	Single-payer, universal health care results in long waits for patients	 Single-payer, universal health care results in long waits for patients Canada is a prime example of this. Many people find themselves waiting for long periods for care in Canada, and sometimes come to the United States to receive faster and higher quality care.
con_12_2	John Goodman, president of the National Center for Policy Analysis, wrote,	John Goodman, president of the National Center for Policy Analysis, wrote, "rationing by waiting is pervasive, putting patients at risk and keeping them in pain."[2]
con_12_3	Frequent cancellations are a feature of universal health care systems.	Frequent cancellations are a feature of universal health care systems. A function of "rationing", doctors sometimes have to cancel visits in a single-payer system.
headline_13	Competition: Is competition a bad thing in health care?
pro_13_1	Competition in health care is generally a bad idea	 Competition in health care is generally a bad idea While competition can make sense when it relates to the production of goods, it is not good when it relates to dealing with human life. The main problem is that a primary means of "cost-cutting" is by skimping on services to people in need.
pro_13_2	Competition causes the wasteful duplication of expensive forms of care	 Competition causes the wasteful duplication of expensive forms of care "Single-Payer FAQ". Physicians for a National Health Program. Retrieved May 30th, 2008 - "When, for example, hospitals compete they often duplicate expensive equipment in order to corner more of the market for lucrative procedure-oriented care. This drives up overall medical costs to pay for the equipment and encourages overtreatment."
con_13_1	Single-payer health care erodes competition in price and value	 Single-payer health care erodes competition in price and value The notion of the free markets as a source of efficiency dates back to Adam Smith. The health care industry is no exception to this rule. If it is open to the free-markets, consumers will shop for and purchase the best price and value. Pressure will be placed on insurance companies to cut costs and sell their surface at a lower price for greater value. Free universal health care would interrupt this, reduce efficiency, and increase costs. 
con_13_2	Governments might attempt to control costs by gaining or enforcing monopsony power.	Governments might attempt to control costs by gaining or enforcing monopsony power. For example, governments, such as Canada, have outlawed medical care if the service is paid for by private individual funds.
headline_14	Economic efficiencies: Would universal health care be more economically efficient?
pro_14_1	Universal health care makes people healthier so more productive.	Universal health care makes people healthier so more productive.
pro_14_2	Universal health care systems are more economically efficient.	Universal health care systems are more economically efficient. America spends a far higher percentage of GDP on health care than any other country, and has worse ratings on a variety of subjects such as quality of care, efficiency of care, access to care, safe care, equity, right care and wait times according to the commonwealth fund. New Zealand, which spends one third per capita what the US spends on health care beats the US on every marker of efficiency and care. Although not definitive, this does lend credence to the idea that universal health care is more efficient than our for profit health care system as the US was inferior to Germany, the UK, Australia, New Zealand and to a lesser degree Canada in nearly all health care quality issues. This despite the fact that the US system costs 2-3x more per capita than the systems in these other countries.
pro_14_3	Universal health care lowers long-term health costs	 Universal health care lowers long-term health costs Universal health care systems better encourage patients to seek preventive care. The result is a dramatic reduction in the long-term health care needs, and thus costs, of individuals citizens in a society.
pro_14_4	There are major hidden costs associated with the uninsured	 There are major hidden costs associated with the uninsured 
pro_14_5	Private healthcare providers are more expensive than public providers	Private healthcare providers are more expensive than public providers They take more money for overhead as well as profit than a public system would. Some claim that private providers take as much as 30% of every healhcare dollar, versus estimates of below 10% for public providers.
pro_14_6	Single-payer health care gets rid of wasteful middlemen	 Single-payer health care gets rid of wasteful middlemen According to an estimate by Dr. Marcia Angell roughly 50% of healthcare dollars are spent on healthcare, the rest go to various middlemen and intermediates to providing healthcare. A streamlined, non-profit, universal system would increase the efficiency with which money spent on healthcare goes to healthcare. 
pro_14_7	Cost savings with universal health care will outweigh program costs	 Cost savings with universal health care will outweigh program costs It is important in this analysis to consider that, even if universal health care were to cost more now, that these costs could easily be outweighed by long-term cost-savings. In other words, the costs of not implementing universal health care would be greater than the costs of implementing it.
pro_14_8	Costs are inconsequential if health care is considered a universal right.	Costs are inconsequential if health care is considered a universal right. It may very well be true that universal health care increases costs. Yet, if we presume that health care is a right, then such added costs are insignificant; they must be born to secure the right of universal health care.
pro_14_9	No universal health care leads to excessive, expensive use of the ER	 No universal health care leads to excessive, expensive use of the ER It is true that when people do not have health car, they more frequently utilize the ER for care. The ER is a costly alternative.
pro_14_10	Aging countries contain health care costs without difficulty	 Aging countries contain health care costs without difficulty 
con_14_1	Free health care leads to overuse of medical services and higher costs	 Free health care leads to overuse of medical services and higher costs Whenever something of value is provided free of charge in society, it is used more. This means that the overall costs of health care will rise. 
con_14_2	Universal health care can't be reversed even if costs explode	 Universal health care can't be reversed even if costs explode Universal health care, like any government benefit, is eventually going to be interpreted as a "right" by the public, making it politically impossible to curtail the program when it becomes too costly. 
con_14_3	Single-payer systems create rigid prices unresponsive to shortages/gluts	 Single-payer systems create rigid prices unresponsive to shortages/gluts Michael F. Cannon. "Socialized Medicine is Already Here". CATO Institute. September 6, 2007 - "Consider two distinguishing features of socialist economies. The first is that the government decides what individuals may produce, what they consume, and the terms of exchange.
con_14_4	Aging countries cannot afford universal health care.	Aging countries cannot afford universal health care. When a country's population ages, the strain of a universal health care program grows, with a larger percentage of the population reaching an age in which they require health care. Therefore, in countries where the population is aging, it may be important to avoid a universal health care program.
headline_15	Administrative costs: Would it reduce administrative costs or add to them?
pro_15_1	US has a big bureaucracy now; universal care won't make it bigger	 US has a big bureaucracy now; universal care won't make it bigger "Single-Payer FAQ". Physicians for a National Health Program. Retrieved May 30th, 2008 - "Won’t this just be another bureaucracy? The United States has the most bureaucratic health care system in the world. Over 31% of every health care dollar goes to paperwork, overhead, CEO salaries, profits, etc."
pro_15_2	Universal health care reduces administrative costs (i.e. paper work)	 Universal health care reduces administrative costs (i.e. paper work) Medical professionals are often challenged with massive amounts of paperwork in private health care systems. A universal health care system will help coordinate and reduce paperwork, allowing doctors to concentrate on treating patients. A single payer system could save $286 billion a year in overhead and paperwork. Administrative costs in the US health care system are estimated to be substantially higher than in other countries and than in the public sector in the US: one estimate put the total administrative costs at 24 percent of US health care spending.
pro_15_3	A profit health care environment results in more frivolous lawsuits	 A profit health care environment results in more frivolous lawsuits When profits are driving doctors to gave favor to patients with good, private insurance, an environment is created that is prone to lawsuits. Indeed, in the United States, this is one of the reasons why malpractice lawsuits are so common.
con_15_1	Universal health care creates a big, inefficient bureaucracy.	Universal health care creates a big, inefficient bureaucracy. The cause of this is greater bureaucratic oversight and more paperwork. This lowers the productivity of hospitals, and thus increases the costs for the same amount of work done.
con_15_2	The costs of transition to a universal health care program would be large:	The costs of transition to a universal health care program would be large: It would involve lost insurance industry jobs, business closures, and new patient record creation, among other things. Creating a new administrative framework and patient database would be a massive under-taking.
con_15_3	Universal health care would increase frivolous malpractice lawsuits	 Universal health care would increase frivolous malpractice lawsuits "Should the Government Provide Free Universal Health Care for All Americans?" Balanced Politics.org - "Malpractice lawsuit costs, which are already sky-high, could further explode since universal care may expose the government to legal liability, and the possibility to sue someone with deep pockets usually invites more lawsuits. 
headline_16	Price: Is the price to the individual taxpayer significantly lower?
pro_16_1	Private health care has become increasingly unaffordable for individuals	 Private health care has become increasingly unaffordable for individuals 
pro_16_2	The lack of universal health care is a leading cause of bankruptcy	 The lack of universal health care is a leading cause of bankruptcy A Harvard study indicates that a lack of universal health care is a leading cause in 50% of bankruptcies filed annually in the United States.
pro_16_3	Total costs for individuals would be reduced by universal health care:	Total costs for individuals would be reduced by universal health care: The current US system is already funded 64% by tax money with the remaining 36% split between private and employer spending. A universal healthcare system would merely replace private/employer spending with tax revenues. Total spending would go down for individuals and employers.
pro_16_4	Single-payer health care allows bargaining for lower drug prices	 Single-payer health care allows bargaining for lower drug prices "Single-Payer FAQ". Physicians for a National Health Program. Retrieved May 30th, 2008 - "When all patients are under one system, the payer wields a lot of clout. The VA gets a 40% discount on drugs because of its buying power. This “monopsony” buying power is the main reason why other countries’ drug prices are lower than ours. This also explains the drug industry’s staunch opposition to single-payer national health insurance."
con_16_1	Universal health care is not free; people pay with their taxes.	Universal health care is not free; people pay with their taxes. It is a myth that universal health care could somehow be free or lower the costs to the patient. People pay through their taxes instead of in direct payments to their health insurance providers.
con_16_2	Single-payer systems typically mean higher taxes.	Single-payer systems typically mean higher taxes. A country which adopts a totally tax funded socialized form of health care will have to increase the average tax rate by an amount equivalent to the cost of providing health care and administering the system. 
con_16_3	Allowing for pooling of resources to force drugs to lower prices will reduce overall innovation.	Allowing for pooling of resources to force drugs to lower prices will reduce overall innovation. Reducing profit, reduces motive and the money necessary to get a drug through FDA trials.  Without profit motive, drug companies will naturally move away from the rare and complex, yet fatal, diseases if they only affect a small percentage of people.  Without the ability to set the price, their resources will naturally be moved almost exclusively into benign treatments which will have a larger percentage of the population as potential users.
headline_17	Businesses: Would a universal health care system be good for businesses?
pro_17_1	Single-payer systems create new job opportunities	 Single-payer systems create new job opportunities Many of those working in the private insurance industry can get new jobs in the new public health care industry. 
pro_17_2	Many businesses cannot pay the private health insurance of employees	 Many businesses cannot pay the private health insurance of employees (Indeed, the Big Three of U.S. car manufacturers cite health-care provision as a reason for their ongoing financial travails. The cost of health insurance to U.S. car manufacturers adds between USD 900 and USD 1,400 to each car made in the U.S.A.).
pro_17_3	Health insurance strains on businesses damage global competitiveness	 Health insurance strains on businesses damage global competitiveness 
pro_17_4	No universal health care causes job lock	 No universal health care causes "job lock" "The Case for Universal Health Care". American Medical Student Association (AMSA). 2005-2006 - "“Job lock”: Job lock refers to the idea that people stay with their jobs when they would rather work elsewhere because their current job offers health insurance. For example, many individuals opt to stay with their job instead of starting their own business because they are unsure of whether they can get health insurance on the individual market, which has higher premiums and often denies people with pre-existing conditions."
con_17_1	Free, universal health care would devastate the insurance industry	 Free, universal health care would devastate the insurance industry "Should the Government Provide Free Universal Health Care for All Americans?" Balanced Politics.org - "A long, painful transition will have to take place involving lost insurance industry jobs, business closures, and new patient record creation.  A universal health plan means the entire health insurance industry would be unnecessary. All companies in that area would have to go out of business, meaning all people employed in the industry would be out of work. A number of hospital record clerks that dealt with insurance would also be out of work. A number of these unemployed would be able to get jobs in the new government bureaucracy, but it would still be a long, painful transition. We'd also have to once again go through a whole new round of patient record creation and database construction, which would cost huge amounts of both time and money."
con_17_2	Universal health care risks monopsony:	Universal health care risks monopsony: Universal health care systems, in an effort to control costs by gaining or enforcing monopsony power, sometimes outlaw medical care paid for by private, individual funds.
headline_18	World vs. US: What does a comparison between the US and world reveal?
pro_18_1	Universal health care internationally is better than US system	 Universal health care internationally is better than US system Paul Krugman, Robin Wells. "The Health Care Crisis and What to Do About It". New York Times Review of Books. Volume 53, Number 5 · March 23, 2006 - "Single-payer and beyond. How do we know that the US health care system is highly inefficient? An important part of the evidence takes the form of international comparisons. Table 1 compares US health care with the systems of three other advanced countries. It's clear from the table that the United States has achieved something remarkable. We spend far more on health care than other advanced countries—almost twice as much per capita as France, almost two and a half times as much as Britain. Yet we do considerably worse even than the British on basic measures of health performance, such as life expectancy and infant mortality."
pro_18_2	High US health care costs are not attributable to poor American health	 High US health care costs are not attributable to poor American health
pro_18_3	High US health care costs are not attributable to premiums for rapid care	 High US health care costs are not attributable to premiums for rapid care
pro_18_4	Millions don't have health insurance in US; universal health care would address this	 Millions don't have health insurance in US; universal health care would address this "Should the Government Provide Free Universal Health Care for All Americans?". Balanced Politics.Org - "The number of uninsured citizens has grown to over 40 million.  Since health care premiums continue to grow at several times the rate of inflation, many businesses are simply choosing to not offer a health plan, or if they do, to pass on more of the cost to employees. Employees facing higher costs themselves are often choosing to go without health coverage. No health insurance doesn't necessarily mean no health care since there are many clinics and services that are free to indigent individuals. However, any costs not covered by insurance must be absorbed by all the rest of us, which means even higher premiums."
pro_18_5	US is the only industrial country without universal health care	 US is the only industrial country without universal health care 
con_18_1	US health care costs more because Americans are less healthy.	US health care costs more because Americans are less healthy. 
con_18_2	US health care costs more because Americans pay to avoid waiting.	US health care costs more because Americans pay to avoid waiting.
con_18_3	Just because Americans are uninsured doesn't mean they can't get health care	 Just because Americans are uninsured doesn't mean they can't get health care "Should the Government Provide Free Universal Health Care for All Americans?" Balanced Politics.org - "Just because Americans are uninsured doesn't mean they can't receive health care; nonprofits and government-run hospitals provide services to those who don't have insurance, and it is illegal to refuse emergency medical service because of a lack of insurance. While uninsured Americans are a problem in regards to total system cost, it doesn't mean health care isn't available. This issue shouldn't be as emotional since there are plenty of government and private medical practices designed to help the uninsured. It is illegal to refuse emergency treatment, even if the patient is an illegal immigrant."
con_18_4	So many are uninsured in America due to government regulations	 So many are uninsured in America due to government regulations
con_18_5	Greater access to health insurance does not improve public health	 Greater access to health insurance does not improve public health
con_18_6	Emergency hospital visits of the uninsured is a manageable problem	 Emergency hospital visits of the uninsured is a manageable problem 
con_18_7	Advanced care improves Americans' chances of surviving cancer	 Advanced care improves Americans' chances of surviving cancer The American Cancer Society notes, "U.S. patients have better survival rates than European patients for most types of cancer."[3]
con_18_8	Medicare is a failure that should not be expanded into universal care	 Medicare is a failure that should not be expanded into universal care
headline_19	Paying for it: Are there sound proposals for paying for added costs?
pro_19_1	There are many ways to pay for any added costs of universal health care	 There are many ways to pay for any added costs of universal health care Some proposed means of dealing with these added costs include a cigarette tax and repealing tax cuts for the wealthy.
pro_19_2	A payroll tax could help fund universal health care	 A payroll tax could help fund universal health care 
pro_19_3	A cigarette tax is a socially responsible way to pay for health care	 A cigarette tax is a socially responsible way to pay for health care
headline_20	Mixed private-public: Is single-payer better than mixed private-public universal health?
pro_20_1	Only the government can provide a coherent universal health care system.	Only the government can provide a coherent universal health care system. Such a system is important from the standpoint of providing quality care, in that only a standardized system and unified database can enable doctors to treat any patient that comes in front of them. Privatized systems often see doctors unable to access the history and files of patients that come before them. The main reasons include the cost and complexity of unifying and standardizing a system as well as the lack of a private-industry interest in seeing such a system emerge. 
con_20_1	A mixed private-public system would preserve existing industries.	A mixed private-public system would preserve existing industries. Any proposal to shift to a single-payer universal health care program from a private health care system involves destroying the private health care industry. This is a highly disruptive act that would involve massive job loss. The advantage of a mixed private-public universal health care system is that it is not as destructive and damaging in this way. It acknowledges the existence of a private health care industry and the need to preserve at least some of the interests of such a massive, and important, industry.
headline_21	Database: Would a centralized database be a good idea?
pro_21_1	Universal health care makes a centralized national database possible	 Universal health care makes a centralized national database possible "Should the Government Provide Free Universal Health Care for All Americans?". Balanced Politics.org - "We can develop a centralized national database which makes diagnosis and treatment easier for doctors.  Most doctor's offices maintain a separate record-keeping system. This is why you always have to fill out a lengthy health history whenever you go to a new physician."
pro_21_2	Government-control of databases better protect privacy than companies.	Government-control of databases better protect privacy than companies.  It is important to recognize that this is not a choice between a government-controlled database and no database. The alternative to a government-controlled health care database is only a privately owned health care databases. With these choices in mind, it is better that health care information be held by the government than by less-regulated companies. The government is better able to protect the privacy of individuals.
con_21_1	Health care databases threaten to violate the privacy of patients.	Health care databases threaten to violate the privacy of patients.
headline_22	Organizations and actors pro and con
