title	Libertarianism
question	Is Libertarianism a sound political philosophy?
headline_1	Rights: Is the Libertarian perspective on individual rights appropriate?
pro_1_1	Individuals have a right to own themselves with full independence.	Individuals have a right to own themselves with full independence. If an individual wants to live in the forest in complete seclusion and without any interaction with other humans beings, shouldn't he be allowed to do so? Why should other people and government have binding rights over that individual? This is the reality in modernity, and contradicts our natural state as fully independent and self-sufficient creatures.
pro_1_2	People choose best for themselves; they should have a right to this choice.	People choose best for themselves; they should have a right to this choice. When people are given the choice of what they want to do, they are likely to choose the one that is best for themselves and society. Because this is true, it is in the collective interests of society to trust in the choices of individuals. Because society is better off with full individual choice, we should extend to individuals full independence in their decision-making.
pro_1_3	Individuals are entirely free, except to violate the freedoms of others	 Individuals are entirely free, except to violate the freedoms of others A bedrock principle of Libertarianism is that citizens have rights that nobody can violate. As long as a citizen is not violating the rights of others, they are acting in accordance with these principles. Similarly, government cannot restrict or coerce individuals beyond protecting individuals from each other. If a government restricts an individual who is doing nothing to violate the rights of other citizens, government has gone too far. Government must be minimized to the extent that it only prevents citizens from violating the rights of other citizens. These principles are known as the law of equal liberty or the non-aggression principle.
pro_1_4	People are free moral creatures, accountable to nobody but themselves.	People are free moral creatures, accountable to nobody but themselves. Individuals are independent in their ability to make moral choices based on their own moral compass. Individuals, therefore, must be held accountable to themselves. Libertarianism acknowledges that individuals must be accountable in this way, while major government programs and welfare programs do not (making individuals accountable for other other individuals). This undermines the dignity of an individual as their own free, moral agents. In general, if an individual wants to make poor choices, it is important that they alone are held responsible for the consequences. This is the only way to teach individuals to take responsibility for themselves and change. 
pro_1_5	Libertarianism offers voters an important political alternative.	Libertarianism offers voters an important political alternative. It is important that voters have alternatives. Libertarianism offer such an alternative to the conservative/liberal dichotomy of view-points.
con_1_1	Libertarians overlook that government/law exist to preserve rights.	Libertarians overlook that government/law exist to preserve rights. Most Libertarians consider government the main impediment to individual rights. This ignores the fact that constitutions are written to enshrine individual rights, and governments are tasked with upholding these rights with laws and other acts.
con_1_2	Individuals must cede some rights to gain collective, democratic power	 Individuals must cede some rights to gain collective, democratic power l John Jay, FEDERALIST No. 2 - "Nothing is more certain than the indispensable necessity of government, and it is equally undeniable, that whenever and however it is instituted, the people must cede to it some of their natural rights in order to vest it with requisite powers."[1]
con_1_3	Libertarian full self-ownership permits voluntary enslavement	 Libertarian "full self-ownership" permits voluntary enslavement If an individual has the full right to own and control themselves, this means that they have the full right to transfer that ownership to others. This risks voluntary enslavement, which is wrong.
con_1_4	Free market economics fosters capitalist authoritarianism; undermines rights	 Free market economics fosters capitalist authoritarianism; undermines rights The only thing that can replace civil, democratic government would be a form of  free-market governance. Without democratic controls, this form of governance is much more likely to be abusive and undermine individual rights. 
con_1_5	Libertarianism contradicted by mere existence of body of law	 Libertarianism contradicted by mere existence of body of law Nevada Attorney General Frankie Sue Del Papa (replying to county-rights advocates), 1993 - "There has been little or no mention of the vast body of law which contradicts your position. I think you owe it to the people whom you address to explain its existence."[2]
headline_2	Consent: Should all interaction with government be voluntary?
pro_2_1	People should not be forced to interact with a government	 People should not be forced to interact with a government Even when people do not want to interact with the government, they are currently forced to do so. By making things voluntary this would remove this problem.
pro_2_2	People can be trusted to make the right choices	People can be trusted to make the right choices. When people are given the choice of whether they want to enroll in a system of government, they are likely to choose the one that is best for themselves and society, whether government or no government is a better choice. 
con_2_1	Making all government interaction voluntary would cause a huge increase in crime	Making all government interaction voluntary would cause a huge increase in crime. All criminals would choose not to interact with government, and, as a result, no one is preventing them from committing crimes.  
con_2_2	People can not always be trusted to make the right choices	People can not always be trusted to make the right choices. Without compulsory government, it would be down to individuals to make the right choices. As some people do not make the right choices, this would result in a crises.
headline_3	Property: Is the libertarian perspective on property appropriate?
pro_3_1	People have full rights to their property that governments can't deprive	 People have full rights to their property that governments can't deprive. Governments violate the rights of citizen when they force, or threaten to force, individuals to transfer their legitimately held wealth to the state in order to provide for pensions, to help the needy, or to pay for public goods (e.g., parks or roads). Individuals have a natural right to life, liberty, and property. Depriving any one of these rights diminishes the others. Therefore, these rights must be considered inviolable. They are important to uphold for their own ends, not merely for other expediencies. Therefore, no matter what the cost, the individual right to property must be upheld as an absolute.
con_3_1	Society must collectively own many form of property through government	 Society must collectively own many form of property through government - Benjamin Franklin - "All property, indeed, except the savage's temporary cabin, his bow, his matchcoat and other little Acquisitions absolutely necessary for his Subsistence, seems to me to be the creature of public Convention. Hence, the public has the rights of regulating Descents, and all other Conveyances of Property, and even of limiting the quantity and uses of it. All the property that is necessary to a man is his natural Right, which none may justly deprive him of, but all Property superfluous to such Purposes is the property of the Public who, by their Laws have created it and who may, by other Laws dispose of it."[3]
con_3_2	Liberal democracies should ensure a degree of equality of outcome	 Liberal democracies should ensure a degree of "equality of outcome" A principal 20th century liberal theorists, John Rawls, originated the idea of a the "veil of ignorance". The idea is that, imagining we all had no idea how we would "come out of the womb" and whether we would be "advantaged or disadvantaged", what kind of social contract would we construct. We would want to construct one in which we minimized the risks to ourselves if we happened to get the "short-end of the stick". This is why a degree of "equality of outcome" is important. Libertarianism does not recognize these ideas.   
headline_4	Small government: Is the libertarian idea of smaller government a good idea?
pro_4_1	The benefits of government can be obtained by voluntary mechanisms.	The benefits of government can be obtained by voluntary mechanisms.  
pro_4_2	People should be able to choose.	People should be able to choose. By having government people are restricted in their freedom of choice as the government restricts what people are able to do. Having more private property will mean that the general public will not have to pay for property that they have never used.
pro_4_3	Government benefits don't justify the means; non-consensual coercion.	Government benefits don't justify the means; non-consensual coercion. While government might produce some benefits, these benefits are not justified by the means. It is not enough to argue that government can produce "good" social outcomes by the non-consensual coercion of individuals into transferring their wealth to the state for such social purposes (or other means). Such coercion is wrong, making it irrelevant if performing this wrong produces a good social outcome; the ends should not be used to justify the means.
pro_4_4	Government is corrupt and works against the interests of the people	 Government is corrupt and works against the interests of the people Neil Smith - "To politicians, solved problems represent a dire threat — of unemployment and poverty. That's why no problem ever tackled by the government has ever been solved. What they want is lots of problems they can promise to solve, so that we'll keep electing them — or letting them keep their jobs in a bureaucracy metastasizing like cancer."[4]
pro_4_5	Libertarianism was the philosophy of many US Founding Fathers (e.g. Jefferson).	Libertarianism was the philosophy of many US Founding Fathers (e.g. Jefferson). Many of the Founding Fathers of the United States of America advocated very vocally for the highest degree of individual rights, and the protection of those rights. Thomas Jefferson was such an individual, and he was significantly skeptical of government.  
con_4_1	Libertarianism abandons the social contract and Western political thought	 Libertarianism abandons the social contract and Western political thought It is important to consider that Libertarianism is quite radical in the way it calls for abandoning the social contract, the foundation of western political thought.
con_4_2	Libertarianism does not allow for essential public services (i.e. roads)	 Libertarianism does not allow for essential public services (i.e. roads) Because Libertarianism does not allow for the collectivization of resources, it does not afford the sufficient resources to a public to provide essential public resources such as roads.  While there are some examples of private roads or private fire-fighting services being provided, the problem is that the quantity and scale of these private services will always be insufficient for our needs. 
con_4_3	Libertarianism contradicts the need for government monopoly of force	 Libertarianism contradicts the need for government monopoly of force It is commonly understood in Western democracies that a government and civilian leaders have a monopoly over the use of force. If there is no or little government, under Libertarian principles, then this basic principle is undermined. If this is the intention of Libertarians, then they risk anarchy, rule by military might, militia-power, civil war, and even the decentralized initiation of war with foreign countries.
con_4_4	People need government to prevent them from making mistakes.	People need government to prevent them from making mistakes. The laws enacted by the government are there to protect people and prevent them from making mistakes. They are needed for a fully functioning society. 
con_4_5	People can not always be trusted to make the right choices	People can not always be trusted to make the right choices. With smaller government, it would be down to individuals to make the right choices. As some people do not make the right choices, this would result in a crises.
headline_5	Economics: Is Libertarianism economically beneficial?
pro_5_1	Free-market economics is the ideal form of (non)governance	 Free-market economics is the ideal form of (non)governance "And God saw everything he had made, and he saw that it was very good; and God said, It just goes to show Me what the private sector can accomplish. With a lot of fool regulations this could have taken billions of years."[5]
pro_5_2	Libertarians are rightly against trade blocs and for free trade.	Libertarians are rightly against trade blocs and for free trade. Libertarians, because they believe that all economic transactions should be free from government intervention, believe in the economic theories of free trade. Free trade involves "free markets" globally, and is believed by most economists to be the most efficient economic system. It incentivizes countries to produce only what they are best at producing and buy from other countries that are best at what they are producing. This results in lower prices internationally and generally the production of greater value.
pro_5_3	Government merely defends the interests of the rich against the poor	 Government merely defends the interests of the rich against the poor Adam Smith - "Civil government, so far as it is instituted for the security of property, is in reality instituted for the defense of the rich against the poor, or of those who have some property against those who have none at all."[6]
con_5_1	Free-market capitalism is a sub-optimal socio-economic model	 Free-market capitalism is a sub-optimal socio-economic model... David Shea - "I'm skeptical of claims based solely on logical deduction, especially in the social sciences. This is especially true in economics where many have pointed out the incredible premises that are required to show that laissez-faire achieves even a minimal sort of optimum."[7]
con_5_2	Past fears of government programs bankrupting society proved wrong	 Past fears of government programs bankrupting society proved wrong Conrad (editorial cartoon), July 1994 - 
con_5_3	Free market capitalism is a non-existent myth in modernity	 Free market capitalism is a non-existent myth in modernity Jonathan Stein - "Once we begin distinguishing the many forms capitalism can take, analytic utility is lost by retaining talismanic terms like "free market." There is no national economy in the world today that is not a mixed economy, which also means that there is no market that is free, or even "mostly" free. Rather, markets are structures that are culturally bounded, always regulated, and genetically dependent on government intervention for their reproduction. Never are they simply "permitted.""[8]
con_5_4	Libertarian economics runs contrary to modern economic theory.	Libertarian economics runs contrary to modern economic theory. Paul Krugman - "Because economics touches so much of life, everyone wants to have an opinion. Yet the kind of economics covered in the textbooks is a technical subject that many people find hard to follow. How reassuring, then, to be told that it is all irrelevant--that all you really need to know are a few simple ideas! Quite a few supply-siders have created for themselves a wonderful alternative intellectual history in which John Maynard Keynes was a fraud, Paul Samuelson and even Milton Friedman are fools, and the true line of deep economic thought runs from Adam Smith through obscure turn-of-the-century Austrians straight to them."[9]
con_5_5	Modern economics calls for case-by-case government intervention	 Modern economics calls for case-by-case government intervention 
con_5_6	Free marketeers deduce from a false premise that markets explain humans	 Free marketeers deduce from a false premise that markets explain humans Free marketeers base their philosophy on the notion that everything can be explained in the context of the markets. This premise is in serious question. Free marketeers also employ circular logic in concluding that market-failures can only be the result of non-market interference. 
con_5_7	Free market economics fosters capitalist authoritarianism; undermines rights	 Free market economics fosters capitalist authoritarianism; undermines rights The main premise of "getting rid of government" is to replace it with the "governance" of the free markets. In other words, Libertarians propose "solving" "big government" with a capitalist authoritarian regime. This would not end "big government" abuses, but would rather simply replace any such abuses with the more egregious abuses of an authoritarian capitalist regime.
headline_6	Foreign policy: Does libertarianism improve foreign policies?
pro_6_1	Libertarianism correctly adopts a neutral, non-interventionist foreign policy.	Libertarianism correctly adopts a neutral, non-interventionist foreign policy. Countries that have adopted neutral, non-interventionist policies leave both their own citizens and foreign citizens better off. Countries that opt to engage abroad often make mistakes, destroy lives, sow resentment, and waste money. While there may be some costs to such a policy, the overall gains are greater.
con_6_1	Libertarianism adopts a faulty isolationist foreign policy.	Libertarianism adopts a faulty isolationist foreign policy. Libertarianism is wrong in believing, effectively, that a nation should leave the world to its own devices. It is important that countries act diplomatically and actively in their engagements abroad.
headline_7	Disadvantaged: Would the disadvantaged/unemployed survive in a libertarian society?
pro_7_1	People will receive money from charities.	People will receive money from charities. If, for some reason, people are unable to work and they are not able to make money they would still survive as they would receive money from charities. 
pro_7_2	People will receive money from families.	People will receive money from families. If, for some reason, people are unable to work and they are not able to make money they would still survive as they would receive money from there families, who would clearly want them to survive. 
con_7_1	People are obligated to offer support to others when it is a matter of survival	 People are obligated to offer support to others when it is a matter of survival Without receiving any government support, many disadvantaged would have no means of survival. Sometimes people who are unable to work may receive no income other than that from the government. If the income from the government is removed, they will receive no income.
con_7_2	Libertarians are self-centered and unconcerned with the suffering of others	 Libertarians are self-centered and unconcerned with the suffering of others. It is completely unethical to allow people to suffer because of some form of disability. Government is an important way of helping disabled people.
headline_8	Social issues: What are the positions of libertarians on social issues? Are they right?
pro_8_1	Libertarians are opposed to government intervention on all social issues.	Libertarians are opposed to government intervention on all social issues. This is one of the reasons that Libertarians are considered "left-wing" on social issues. Libertarians are opposed to government intervention in a variety of areas:
pro_8_2	Libertarians call for repealing all laws regulating sex	 Libertarians call for repealing all laws regulating sex, including prostitution, homosexuality, and sexually explicit materials.
pro_8_3	Women have a right to control their bodies and choose abortion	 Women have a right to control their bodies and choose abortion
pro_8_4	Libertarians oppose all restrictions on freedom of speech	 Libertarians oppose all restrictions on freedom of speech
con_8_1	It is important for society to set some moral boundaries.	It is important for society to set some moral boundaries. It is possible to call some things moral and some things immoral. Actions that are seen as immoral, if they are agreed upon as immoral by society, can be rightfully outlawed. This is important for society in establishing moral boundaries and improving the ethical sensibilities of a citizenry. 
headline_9	Crime: Would crime increase in a Libertarian society?
pro_9_1	In a libertarian society people would feel more responsible for their actions	In a libertarian society people would feel more responsible for their actions. Due to the emphasis libertarians place on personal responsibility by Libertarians, people would feel guilty about committing crimes. As a result, less crimes would be commited.
pro_9_2	Libertarians would decriminalize many crimes, so reduce crime.	Libertarians would decriminalize many crimes, so reduce "crime". By decriminalizing many crimes, particularly victimless crimes such as smoking marijuana, Libertarians would reduce the number of "offenses" that are considered "crimes", so reduce crime. This is important particularly from the standpoint of sending people to jail for minor offenses. 
con_9_1	People need government to prevent them from making mistakes.	People need government to prevent them from making mistakes. The laws enacted by the government are there to protect people and prevent them from making mistakes. They are needed for a society that is not overrun with crime. 
con_9_2	Libertarianism would give criminals an immunity from loss	 Libertarianism would give criminals an immunity from loss Because Libertarians uphold the absolute rights of individuals against government, a problem occurs in regards to how criminals are dealt with. The problem is that it may become difficult or impossible to imprison or punish criminals (e.g. by fining them and depriving them of some property) if their rights are inviolable by government. This is a dangerous situation, and would likely reduce the fears in the minds of criminals associated with committing crimes. 
headline_10	Environment: Would libertarianism be good or bad for the environment?
pro_10_1	Individuals have the right to appropriate natural resources.	Individuals have the right to appropriate natural resources. Individuals, having a right to make independent choices, have the right to appropriate natural resources for their own purposes. 
pro_10_2	People can be trusted to make right environmental choices	 People can be trusted to make right environmental choices When people are given the choice of whether they want to help the environment, they are likely to choose the one that is best for themselves and society, which is likely to involve helping the environment. Russell Means - "A libertarian society would not allow anyone to injure others by pollution because it insists on individual responsibility."[10]
pro_10_3	Many left forms of Libertarianism call for environmental protections.	Many left forms of Libertarianism call for environmental protections. Not all forms of Libertarianism call for the availability of natural resources to individual ownership. Left-Libertarianism limits this, while allowing form any other forms of individual ownership. 
con_10_1	Libertarianism would allow individuals to own and destroy the environment	 Libertarianism would allow individuals to own and destroy the environment Thomas Paine - "Men did not make the earth. It is the value of the improvements only, and not the earth itself, that is individual property. Every proprietor owes to the community a ground rent for the land which he holds."[11]
headline_11	Does the Libertarian party follow the principles of Libertarianism?
pro_11_1	The Libertarian Party only exists to promote libertarianism	The Libertarian Party only exists to promote libertarianism. People joining the Libertarian Party only join because they want to promote libertarianism. As a result, the Libertarian party follows libertarian principles. 
pro_11_2	All people joining the Libertarian party a required to confirm they are Libertarian.	All people joining the Libertarian party a required to confirm they are Libertarian. When you join the Libertarian, you a required to see that you believe in smaller government and the non initiation of force. These are key Libertarian principles.
con_11_1	By being involved in government, the Libertarian Party has stopped being Libertarian.	By being involved in government, the Libertarian Party has stopped being Libertarian. Libertarians do not promote any interaction with government. As a result, people fro the Libertarian Party, who interact with government, are not true Libertarians. 
con_11_2	Some Libertarian party members are not Libertarians.	Some Libertarian party members are not Libertarians. Some members of the Libertarian Party believe in government restrictions on issues like drugs and immigration. This stance is not the traditional Libertarian stance. 
headline_12	Is the Libertarian viewpoint right wing?
pro_12_1	Libertarianism promotes many right wing view points	Libertarianism promotes many right wing view points. Libertarians believe in several view points that are often considered right wing. For example, Libertarians believe in the relaxation of gun laws. 
con_12_1	Libertarians cooperate with many non right wing organizations	Libertarians cooperate with many non right wing organizations. For example, Jim Babka, from Libertarian organization Downsize DC said they they have "had some very successful alliances with groups who would never describe themselves as conservative. " 
con_12_2	There is no point in defining a radical form anarchism (Libertarianism)	 There is no point in defining a radical form anarchism (Libertarianism) Noam Chomsky - "There isn't much point arguing about the word 'libertarian.' It would make about as much sense to argue with an unreconstructed Stalinist about the word 'democracy' -- recall that they called what they'd constructed 'peoples' democracies.' The weird offshoot of ultra-right individualist anarchism that is called 'libertarian' here happens to amount to advocacy of perhaps the worst kind of imaginable tyranny, namely unaccountable private tyranny. If they want to call that 'libertarian,' fine; after all, Stalin called his system 'democratic.' But why bother arguing about it?"[12]
headline_13	Is the Libertarian viewpoint left wing?
pro_13_1	Libertarians cooperate with many left wing organizations	Libertarians cooperate with many left wing organizations. For example, Jim Babka, from Libertarian organization Downsize DC said they they have "had some very successful alliances with groups who would never describe themselves as conservative. " 
con_13_1	Libertarianism promotes many right wing view points, not just left wing points	Libertarianism promotes many right wing view points, not just left wing points. Libertarians believe in several view points that are often considered right wing. For example, Libertarians believe in the relaxation of gun laws. This position is hardly ever taken by left wing politicians, and, as a result Libertarians can not be considered left wing.
con_13_2	There is no point in defining a radical form anarchism (Libertarianism)	 There is no point in defining a radical form anarchism (Libertarianism) Noam Chomsky - "There isn't much point arguing about the word 'libertarian.' It would make about as much sense to argue with an unreconstructed Stalinist about the word 'democracy' -- recall that they called what they'd constructed 'peoples' democracies.' The weird offshoot of ultra-right individualist anarchism that is called 'libertarian' here happens to amount to advocacy of perhaps the worst kind of imaginable tyranny, namely unaccountable private tyranny. If they want to call that 'libertarian,' fine; after all, Stalin called his system 'democratic.' But why bother arguing about it?"[13]
