title	Animal testing
question	Is it morally acceptable to experiment on animals for human purposes?
headline_1	Dominion: Do humans have dominion over animals, justifying testing?
pro_1_1	Humans have dominion over animals with a right to exploit them	 Humans have dominion over animals with a right to exploit them Genesis 1:28  - "And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth." This means that humans have the sovereign right to subdue and control animals for man's own purposes. 
pro_1_2	Humans have always eaten/exploited animals; it has evolved into our DNA	 Humans have always eaten/exploited animals; it has evolved into our DNA. Michael Pollan. "An Animal's Place". The New York Times Magazine. November 10, 2002 - "There is, too, the fact that we humans have been eating animals as long as we have lived on this earth. Humans may not need to eat meat in order to survive, yet doing so is part of our evolutionary heritage, reflected in the design of our teeth and the structure of our digestion. Eating meat helped make us what we are, in a social and biological sense. Under the pressure of the hunt, the human brain grew in size and complexity, and around the fire where the meat was cooked, human culture first flourished. Granting rights to animals may lift us up from the brutal world of predation, but it will entail the sacrifice of part of our identity--our own animality." 
pro_1_3	Humans have dominion over evolutionarily domesticated animals	Humans have "dominion" over evolutionarily "domesticated" animals There are certain animals that have evolved with humans, through mutual self-interests in survival, to become "domesticated" by humans. Cats, dogs, pigs, and chickens are examples. Our "dominion" over these animals is certainly biological and evolutionary. Animal testing is certainly justified on these "domesticated" animals.
con_1_1	Dominion makes humans stewards; no right to harm/exploit animals	 "Dominion" makes humans stewards; no right to harm/exploit animals Even if we apply the notion of "dominion", and if we deprive animals of rights, the principle of "dominion" should be applied in a way that requires humans to see themselves as "stewards" of animals. As outlined by Matthew Scully in Dominion, humans should apply the principle of mercy to animals, which requires that they inflict no pain or suffering on them. He writes, "We are called to treat them with kindness, not because they have rights or power or some claim to equality but...because they stand unequal and powerless before us."[1] Part of the significance of this argument is that even if we conclude animals should not have rights, we can still conclude (via the principle of mercy) that animals should not be subjected to pain, suffering, and testing. 
con_1_2	Evolutionary science debunks the idea of human dominion over animals	 Evolutionary science debunks the idea of human dominion over animals. Humans have evolved from animals and from a common single cell organism. Humans did not have dominion then over other animals; in-fact, we didn't even exist. Therefore, how is it possible to claim that we now can have dominion? At a minimum, evolution forces us to recognize that humans do not have an innate-historical claim to "dominion". 
con_1_3	Humans evolved from other animals; our history is not innately superior	Humans evolved from other animals; our history is not innately superior.
con_1_4	Animals are independent creatures that don't exist to serve humans	 Animals are independent creatures that don't exist to serve humans Tom Regan. "The Philosophy of Animal Rights". Retrieved May 6th, 2008 - "THE PHILOSOPHY OF ANIMAL RIGHTS The other animals humans eat, use in science, hunt, trap, and exploit in a variety of ways, have a life of their own that is of importance to them apart from their utility to us. They are not only in the world, they are aware of it. What happens to them matters to them. Each has a life that fares better or worse for the one whose life it is[...] By insisting upon and justifying the independent value and rights of other animals, it gives scientifically informed and morally impartial reasons for denying that these animals exist to serve us."
con_1_5	Humans and animals are of one family like brothers and sisters	 Humans and animals are of one family like brothers and sisters Chief Seattle - "We are part of the earth and it is part of us. The perfumes flowers are our sisters; the deer, the horse, the great eagle: these are our brothers. All things are connected like the blood which unites one's family."[2]
headline_2	Rights: Is it wrong to believe that animals have rights?
pro_2_1	Animals cannot possess rights because they have no moral judgement	 Animals cannot possess rights because they have no moral judgement The ability to reason and to express a free will is essential to rights. This is because rights require that an individual be capable of responsibility. 
pro_2_2	Animals cannot make moral claims so cannot claim rights	 Animals cannot make moral claims so cannot claim rights Carl Cohen. "Why animals have no rights. The Case for the Use of Animals in Biomedical Research" The New England Journal of Medicine 315, no. 14 (October 2,1986): 865-69 - "The differing targets, contents, and sources of rights, and their inevitable conflict, together weave a tangled web. Notwithstanding all such complications, this much is clear about rights in general: they are in every case claims, or potential claims, within a community of moral agents.  Rights arise, and can be intelligibly defended, only among beings who actually do, or can, make moral claims against one another. Whatever else rights may be, therefore, they are necessarily human; their possessors are persons, human beings."
pro_2_3	That the retarded have rights does not justify animal rights	 That the retarded have rights does not justify animal rights This is frequent argument of animal rights activists; that animals deserve rights because they have at least as much capacity to reason as do some retarded humans, who retain rights. The problem with this argument is that it fails to see rights as a thing that must be shared among a group of creatures, not something that is extended on an individual basis. Therefore, the question is not whether some humans are incapable of having rights, but rather whether human kind, as a species, is capable of having rights. They are. Non-human animals, conversely, as a class of organisms, are not capable of holding rights. 
pro_2_4	Animal rights reduce humans to mere animals, not made in God's image	 Animal rights reduce humans to mere animals, not made in God's image David R. Carlin, professor of philosophy and sociology at the Community College of Rhode Island - "By arguing that animals are equal to humans and thus deserve the same legal protection, animal rights proponents reduce human beings to nothing more than biological entities, on par with animals. Animal rights advocates' view of humanity negates fundamental Christian, Platonic, and Stoic claims that man was created in the image and likeness of God. Humans are clearly superior to animals. Granting animals legal rights would be dangerous and degrading to humans."
pro_2_5	Granting rights to animals would damage human rights	 Granting rights to animals would damage human rights Offering animals rights impedes on many human rights. For instance, it makes it more difficult for a human to defend themselves or their crops or livestock against threatening animals.
pro_2_6	Protecting animals from suffering by humans is a matter of animal welfare not rights.	Protecting animals from suffering by humans is a matter of animal welfare not rights. Many supposed animal rights activists claim that they desire to see animals have a right against suffering at the hands of humans. This might be a good idea, but it is false to claim that it is a "right". Such an idea can only be classified within the realm of animal welfare. The main reason is that it is only something that is practiced by humans unto animals, and can never be claimed or defended by animals out of their own accord. In addition, the idea only restricts humans against inflicting suffering on animals, but does restrict animals from inflicting suffering on other animals (not even animals within their own species). Because it is a one-way relationship in this sense (from human-kind onto individual animals), it can only be seen as welfare, not a right that an animal  might be able to carry in all their relationships with other creatures.    
pro_2_7	Humans have an evolutionary right to uphold self-interests by testing animals.	Humans have an evolutionary right to uphold self-interests by testing animals. Humans are creatures of evolution. In evolution, the natural order is to uphold the self-interests of the individual and the species. Therefore, exploiting other animals to advance human self-interests is consistent with the natural order of evolution, and thus ethical. It is only unethical to damage the interests of one's own species.  
pro_2_8	It is more humane to perform tests on animals than on humans.	It is more humane to perform tests on animals than on humans. Testing substances on humans without being aware of the potential dangers would be more unethical than testing animals. And, yet, we must perform tests on animals or on humans to advance life-saving medicines. Given a choice between testing humans and animals, it is better to choose to test animals. 
con_2_1	Animals deserve the same basic rights that humans enjoy	 Animals deserve the same basic rights that humans enjoy  Marymoose. "The case against animal testing". Helium - "Animal testing generally occurs as a result of developing a cost-benefit model. Basically, if the benefit of the research (to humans) looks high, then it is seen as being worth the costs (to animals). For instance it is seen that if animal research is likely to save the lives of many humans that it is worthwhile. However, it can be argued that all sentient beings have the same rights, and that costs to animals are as important as costs to humans. There is no moral basis for elevating the interests of one species over another this is specieism."
con_2_2	Humans are obligated to cause animals no pain or suffering	 Humans are obligated to cause animals no pain or suffering Jeremy Bentham - "The question is not, 'Can they reason?' nor, 'Can they talk?' but rather, 'Can they suffer?'"[3] 
con_2_3	Humans have a choice and thus responsibility to do no harm to animals.	Humans have a choice and thus responsibility to do no harm to animals. Many opponents of animal rights and supporters of testing cite the fact that animals kill each other without public outcry, and ask, why humans should be held to a higher standard? The answer is that humans have the capacity to make the choice to inflict pain on animals. Animals, having no free will, so do not have this same ability to choose. Therefore, if we determine that it is morally ethical to do no harm to animals, since we have the choice, it is our unique responsibility to do no harm.
con_2_4	Killing animals should be viewed as equivalent to killing humans	 Killing animals should be viewed as equivalent to killing humans Leonardo Da Vinci - "The time will come when people such as I will look upon the murder of (other) animals as they no look upon the murder of human beings."[4]
con_2_5	Animals should be treated as we would want to be treated	 Animals should be treated as we would want to be treated Christine Stevens - "The basis of all animal rights should be the Golden Rule:  we should treat them as we would wish them to treat us, were any other species in our dominant position."[5]  
con_2_6	Modern humans have lost touch with animals and our likeness	 Modern humans have lost touch with animals and our likeness A number of writers indicate that modern humans have become desensitized to animals, having lost daily contact with them in the wild. In particular, some writers indicate that there is infrequent eye-contact between wild animals and humans, and this has damaged our ability to sympathize with their likeness to us, making it easier (wrongly) for us to kill them and exploit them. 
con_2_7	Humans must respect animal rights even if animals can't reciprocate	 Humans must respect animal rights even if animals can't reciprocate Tom Regan, an American animal right philosopher. "10 Reasons AGAINST Animal Rights and Their Replies". Retrieved May 6th, 2008 - "6. Animals don't respect our rights. Therefore, humans have no obligation to respect their rights either.
con_2_8	Animal rights can be assigned according to animal psychology	 Animal rights can be assigned according to animal psychology Jeremy Bentham - While critics question where the line would be drawn, fearing that animal rights activists would grant rights to single cell organisms, the general consensus in the animal rights community is that rights should be conferred only to animals that can suffer. This is a psychological distinction that is possible to make in acceptable terms. And, the main right being granted is the right to avoid suffering at the hands of humans.
con_2_9	Animal testing wrongly involves sentient, human-like creatures	 Animal testing wrongly involves sentient, human-like creatures Randy Fairchild. "The Case Against Animal Testing". Helium - "Though we perform testing on animals, and even eat the ones with less fur, we are not cannibals; we do not torture our own. Or do we?
con_2_10	Animals are like vulnerable minorities that can't vote to end abuses	 Animals are like vulnerable minorities that can't vote to end abuses Mahatma Gandhi - "To my mind, the life of a lamb is no less precious than that of a human being. The more helpless the creature, the more that it is entitled to protection by man from the cruelty of man."[6]
con_2_11	Animals denied rights for human-unlikeness are experimented on for human-likeness	 Animals denied rights for human-unlikeness are experimented on for human-likeness Charles R. Magel, Professor and Animal rights activist. - "Ask the experimenters why they experiment on animals, and the answer is:  'Because the animals are like us.'  Ask the experimenters why it is morally okay to experiment on animals, and the answer is:  'Because the animals are not like us.'  Animal experimentation rests on a logical contradiction."[7]  
headline_3	Animals kill... Is animal testing justified on basis that animals harm one-another too?
pro_3_1	If animals have rights, do we criminalize animals that abuse each other's rights?	If animals have rights, do we criminalize animals that abuse each other's rights? This argument simply highlights the fact that animal rights are legally untenable. 
pro_3_2	Animals can't uphold human rights; we are not obligated to uphold theirs	 Animals can't uphold human rights; we are not obligated to uphold theirs Animals don't respect human rights. Therefore, humans have no obligation to respect their rights either.
pro_3_3	Animal rights unfairly alienate humans from the natural order.	Animal rights unfairly alienate humans from the natural order. Why should animals be free from obligations and responsibilities toward one-another in the animal kingdom, while humans might be obligated by "animal rights" to certain responsibilities toward them? Why should humans be alienated from the natural order of the animal kingdom in this way? The answer is that we should not be, and animal rights should not exist.  
con_3_1	That animals harm/kill each other does not justify the same by humans	 That animals harm/kill each other does not justify the same by humans Michael Pollan. "An Animal's Place". The New York Times Magazine. November 10, 2002 - "My first line of defense was obvious. Animals kill one another all the time. Why treat animals more ethically than they treat one another? (Ben Franklin tried this one long before me: during a fishing trip, he wondered, 'If you eat one another, I don't see why we may not eat you.' He admits, however, that the rationale didn't occur to him until the fish were in the frying pan, smelling 'admirably well.' The advantage of being a 'reasonable creature,' Franklin remarks, is that you can find a reason for whatever you want to do.) To the 'they do it, too' defense, the animal rightist has a devastating reply: do you really want to base your morality on the natural order? Murder and rape are natural, too. Besides, humans don't need to kill other creatures in order to survive; animals do. (Though if my cat, Otis, is any guide, animals sometimes kill for sheer pleasure.)"
con_3_2	Exploiting animals is more dignified than their living in the wild	Exploiting animals is more dignified than their living in the wild Animals invariably experience great suffering in the wild. Removing them from this environment can be very beneficial and reassuring for animals.
headline_4	Differences: Are humans superior to animals or equals? Does this matter?
pro_4_1	Human life is of greater intrinsic value than animal life	Human life is of greater intrinsic value than animal life "Putting Humans First: Why We Are Nature’s Favorite". Tibor R. Machan. Rowman & Littlefield, 2004 - "beings that lack a rational faculty also lack the capacity to contribute creatively to the values in nature. By contrast, human beings can create value, as a matter of our initiative, not merely exhibit it." (p. 36).
pro_4_2	If humans are animals, why defy our animalistic instincts?	 If humans are animals, why defy our animalistic instincts? Michael Pollan. "An Animal's Place". The New York Times Magazine. November 10, 2002 - "Surely this is one of the odder paradoxes of animal rights doctrine. It asks us to recognize all that we share with animals and then demands that we act toward them in a most unanimalistic way. Whether or not this is a good idea, we should at least acknowledge that our desire to eat meat is not a trivial matter, no mere 'gastronomic preference.' We might as well call sex--also now technically unnecessary--a mere 'recreational preference.' Whatever else it is, our meat eating is something very deep indeed." 
con_4_1	From a utilitarian perspective morality should not be based on species differences	From a utilitarian perspective morality should not be based on species differences
con_4_2	Human and animal differences do not justify speciism/discrimination	 Human and animal differences do not justify speciism/discrimination Randy Fairchild. "The Case Against Animal Testing". Helium - "But even assuming that animals are so very different from us, where does this concept of difference justifying mistreatment come from? Is it supported in the modern ethics of developed countries? It certainly was not the principle justifying our war against Nazism, the better part of a century ago, let alone its more subtle ethical variant of the Civil Rights movement of the 1960s. A central concept of Civil Rights is to treat different persons as well or better (e.g. affirmative action) than oneself - In short, to ascend to selflessness, cherishing diversity."
con_4_3	Animal life is equivalent in value to human life	 Animal life is equivalent in value to human life Mahatma Gandhi - "To my mind, the life of a lamb is no less precious than that of a human being. The more helpless the creature, the more that it is entitled to protection by man from the cruelty of man." 
con_4_4	Animals are equal to humans in science as lifeforms on Earth	 Animals are equal to humans in science as lifeforms on Earth Tom Regan. "The Philosophy of Animal Rights". Retrieved May 6th, 2008 - "Explanation: The philosophy of animal rights is respectful of our best science in general and evolutionary biology in particular. The latter teaches that, in Darwin's words, humans differ from many other animals "in degree," not in kind." Questions of line drawing to one side, it is obvious that the animals used in laboratories, raised for food, and hunted for pleasure or trapped for profit, for example, are our psychological kin. This is no fantasy, this is fact, proven by our best science."
con_4_5	Animals have emotions, personalities, and souls just like humans	 Animals have emotions, personalities, and souls just like humans Henry David Thoreau - "I saw deep in the eyes of the animals the human soul look out upon me. I saw where it was born deep down under feathers and fur, or condemned for a while to roam four-footed among the brambles,I caught the clinging mute glance of the prisoner and swore that I would be faithful."[8]
con_4_6	Humans can do wrong so can be morally inferior to animals	 Humans can do wrong so can be morally inferior to animals Humans are uniquely capable of acting immorally. In this sense, the superiority of humans is dependent on whether they act morally or immorally. Animal testing lends may be an example of human immorality, and fittingly strengthen the case that we may be even worse than other animals, and that testing is, therefore, not justified.
con_4_7	Animals are superior to humans in many of their abilities	Animals are superior to humans in many of their abilities
headline_5	Pain: Do animals experience very little or no pain?
pro_5_1	It is a misconception that all animal testing involves pain.	It is a misconception that all animal testing involves pain. Many forms of animal testing do not inflict any pain on the animal. They may simply study the effects of a mild drug on an animal or simply test brain activity without cutting or harming an animal in any way. In consideration of this fact, it is inappropriate to call for abandoning all forms of animal testing. Certainly, there is no need to abandon the forms of animal testing that do no harm to animals.
con_5_1	Animals feel and suffer in very similar ways as humans	Animals feel and suffer in very similar ways as humans [9] "Nearly all the external signs that lead us to infer pain in other humans can be seen in other species, especially the species most closely related to us--the species of mammals and birds. The behavioral signs include writhing, facial contortions, moaning, yelping or other forms of calling, attempts to avoid the source of the pain, appearance of fear at the prospect of its repetition, and so on. In addition, we know that these animals have nervous systems very like ours, which respond physiologically like ours do when the animal is in circumstances in which we would feel pain."
con_5_2	Animals experience pain and suffering in experiments	Animals experience pain and suffering in experiments
con_5_3	Animal experimentation inherently involves harming animals	Animal experimentation inherently involves harming animals 
con_5_4	Animal testing frequently qualifies as cruel and unusual torture	 Animal testing frequently qualifies as cruel and unusual torture 
headline_6	Test results/benefits: Are the results of animal experimentation useful?
pro_6_1	Animal testing has significantly improved human welfare	 Animal testing has significantly improved human welfare Past experience has shown what invaluable advances can be made in medicine by experimenting on animals, and that live animals are the most reliable subjects for testing medicines and other products for toxicity. In many countries (e.g. the US and the UK) all prescription drugs must be tested on animals before they are allowed onto the market. To ban animal experiments would be to paralyse modern medicine, to perpetuate human suffering, and to endanger human health by allowing products such as insecticides onto the market before testing them for toxicity.
pro_6_2	Animals are good research subjects because they are similar to humans	 Animals are good research subjects because they are similar to humans Human beings share over 99.4% of their genes with chimpanzees and about 99% with mice. It is instructive to consider that humans also share approximately 90% of their genes with cows. The physiologies of humans and these animals are very similar, with very similar organ and nerve systems. For this reason, it is useful and productive to study these animals as a means of advancing human sciences. The reactions of these creatures are a very good guide to possible reactions of human patients. "Why do scientists use animals in research?". The American Physiological Society. Retrieved May 3rd, 2008 - "Animals make good research subjects for a variety of reasons. Animals are biologically similar to humans. They are susceptible to many of the same health problems, and they have short life-cycles so they can easily be studied throughout their whole life-span or across several generations." 
pro_6_3	Animal environments can be better controlled for research than humans	 Animal environments can be better controlled for research than humans "Why do scientists use animals in research?". The American Physiological Society. Retrieved May 3rd, 2008 - "In addition, scientists can easily control the environment around the animal (diet, temperature, lighting, etc.), which would be difficult to do with people. However, the most important reason why animals are used is that it would be wrong to deliberately expose human beings to health risks in order to observe the course of a disease."
pro_6_4	Differences between humans and animals can be accounted for in tests	 Differences between humans and animals can be accounted for in tests Edythe London, UCLA researcher. "Why I use laboratory animals". Los Angeles Times. November 1, 2007 - "While monkeys receive drugs in the laboratory, they do not become "addicted" in the same sense that humans become addicted. Still, we are able to see how changes in brain chemistry alter the way the brain works -- knowledge that is vital to the design of effective medications."
pro_6_5	Drug toxicity is rarely a result of any misleading animal testing	 Drug toxicity is rarely a result of any misleading animal testing There are many factors involved in a drug being reported as toxic that are often cited as a result of animal-testing, but which have to do with other factors, such as human error in use or typical blood-type responses to particular drugs. While there are some instances of misleading results from animal testing that indicated a drug was safe when it was not, this is extremely rare. It is rare enough that it is both insignificant or at least consistent with other risks involved in human drug consumption.
pro_6_6	Animal testing has helped develop important drug treatments	 Animal testing has helped develop important drug treatments "Animal Experiments". BBC.co.uk. Updated August 17th, 2004 - "Antibiotics, HIV drugs, insulin and cancer treatments rely on animal tests. Other testing methods aren't advanced enough". 
pro_6_7	Animal experiments have helped improve heart disease prevention/treatment	 Animal experiments have helped improve heart disease prevention/treatment
pro_6_8	Animal experiments have helped develop disease vaccines	 Animal experiments have helped develop disease vaccines  "Animal Experiments". BBC.co.uk. Updated August 17th, 2004 - "Animal testing has helped to develop vaccines against diseases like rabies, polio, measles, mumps, rubella and TB".
pro_6_9	Animal testing is important in fighting HIV/AIDS	 Animal testing is important in fighting HIV/AIDS
pro_6_10	Animal testing is important to the fight against cancer	 Animal testing is important to the fight against cancer 
pro_6_11	Animal experimentation is important to treatments of bacterial infections	 Animal experimentation is important to treatments of bacterial infections 
pro_6_12	Animal experiments helped advance organ transplant techniques	 Animal experiments helped advance organ transplant techniques 
pro_6_13	Addiction researchers know that animals have no prior drug use	 Addiction researchers know that animals have no prior drug use   
con_6_1	Responsibly ending animal testing will not impede medical advancements.	Responsibly ending animal testing will not impede medical advancements. Animal testing is not the core of medical advancements in the world. It has certainly been a factor in some cases, but the vast majority of medical research has nothing to do with animal testing. Therefore, the overall impact of ending animal testing will be negligible. Furthermore, alternatives are being developed to replace animals as sufficient mediums for testing and advancing medical practices. 
con_6_2	Animal tests too infrequently lead to scientific advancements	Animal tests too infrequently lead to scientific advancements While it is undeniable that scientific advancements have been made on account of animal experimentation, these advancements have been too rare to justify animal testing. The basic problem is that there is never any guarantee that any instance of animal testing will lead to any advancement in science. There is always a significant risk that an entire line of study that involves killing thousands of animals will lead to no substantive scientific benefits. This makes it highly inconsistent that the ethical trade-off is "worth it", if it ever is. This inconsistency means that a large portion of tested animals will not meet the ethical criteria of being "worth it", and could thus be called ethically wrong. 
con_6_3	Animal responses to tests can be different than human responses	Animal responses to tests can be different than human responses Marymoose. "The Case Against Animal Testing". Helium - "One of the main arguments against the use of animals in research is that animal studies can't actually confirm or refute hypotheses about human physiology or pathology. In straightforward terms, it can be argued that only research done with humans is relevant to humans."
con_6_4	Medicines tested successfully on animals can prove toxic to humans	Medicines tested successfully on animals can prove toxic to humans Uncaged - "to subject animals to painful, distressing and lethal experiments when the results are not applicable to humans." Some drugs like thalidomide and clioquinol proved safe in animal testing but were devastating in human consumption. The bigger point is that it is arguable that drugs have been used massively and inflicted massive harm on humans because they were falsely assumed to be safe for human consumption on the basis of animal tests. 
con_6_5	Animal testing often entails pain and stresses that skew results	Animal testing often entails pain and stresses that skew results 
con_6_6	Cosmetic testing on animals is pointless, given different skin types.	Cosmetic testing on animals is pointless, given different skin types. A chimp's skin is very different than the skin of a human. Animals and humans have very different pores and skin sensitivity levels. Therefore, completing experiments on them to see how a product will work on people is a waste of innocent lives.
con_6_7	Animal testing does not benefit the fight against HIV/AIDS	 Animal testing does not benefit the fight against HIV/AIDS  
con_6_8	Prevention is ideal approach to HIV/AIDS; animal testing only helps treatment	Prevention is ideal approach to HIV/AIDS; animal testing only helps treatment 
headline_7	We hunt and eat animals... Is testing justified by our already hunting and eating animals?
pro_7_1	Animals are exploited by humans without public outcry; why alienate animal experimentation?	Animals are exploited by humans without public outcry; why alienate animal experimentation?  Animals are used as pets and for work in the agriculture and police industries. In all of these cases, they are being exploited for certain human ends, without too much concern for their "rights". It should not be of major concern, therefore, that animals are being exploited experiments for human ends. And, given that the exploitation is aimed at saving human lives, it is possible to argue that the degree of exploitation could be even more sever than in other cases of animal exploitation where the human-interests are less compelling.
pro_7_2	Animals are hunted and killed without public outcry; why alienate animal testing?	Animals are hunted and killed without public outcry; why alienate animal testing? Animals are hunted and fished and are culled by animal controllers (raccoons, rats mice for the purpose of pest control). 10 times the amount of animals that are used in animal testing are killed for other less honorable reasons. Cats and dogs are euthanized every year for not apparent reason than bored owners. Other millions of animals are killed by automobiles (Cats, dogs, raccoons, foxes, deer).
con_7_1	Eating and hunting of animals does not justify testing; equally wrong	 Eating and hunting of animals does not justify testing; equally wrong It is not a justification for animal testing that some humans eat and hunt animals. A tenant of the animal rights community is that any form of harm to animals is wrong, usually if it can be easily avoided with reasonable substitutes. It is, therefore, also not appropriate to say that "the eating and hunting of animals goes without much public outcry, so why alienate animal testing?" The truth is that the eating and hunting of animals is met by substantial protest by animal rights activists. Again, hunting and meat consumption do not provide cover for animal testing.
con_7_2	Murdering and testing humans is wrong; so is murdering and testing animals.	Murdering and testing humans is wrong; so is murdering and testing animals. In equivalent, killing of animals and animal testing is wrong! 
headline_8	Moral trade-offs: Is animal testing morally right if it reduces human suffering?
pro_8_1	The world has benefited hugely from medical research with animals	The world has benefited hugely from medical research with animals "The use of animals in research". Royal Society. Jan 28th, 2002 - "everybody has benefited immensely from scientific research involving animals and that virtually every medical achievement in the past century has depended directly or indirectly from this type of work."
pro_8_2	Animal testing is more important now to human welfare than ever before	Animal testing is more important now to human welfare than ever before
pro_8_3	Animal testing and suffering is justified if it reducing human suffering	Animal testing and suffering is justified if it reducing human suffering So that if there is a decent chance that an experiment will result in an important medical breakthrough that will reduce human suffering and death then it is justifiable to allow animal suffering. Animal experimentation is the (sometimes distasteful) means to much greater ends.
pro_8_4	Animals are important to testing life-saving drugs before they are safe for humans	Animals are important to testing life-saving drugs before they are safe for humans Edythe London, UCLA researcher. "Why I use laboratory animals". Los Angeles Times. November 1, 2007 - "[animals] allow us to test possibly life-saving treatments before they are considered safe to test in humans." If animals were not available to use in testing drugs, it would be more difficult to determine the safety of a drug to humans, which would delay the release of potentially life-saving drugs. This could cost human lives.
pro_8_5	Testing on sentient creatures is necessary; they are most like humans.	Testing on sentient creatures is necessary; they are most like humans. While it is true that it is considered worse to harm sentient creatures than microbes and less-sentient creatures, sentient creatures are the most like humans and so the most valuable for making discoveries that are applicable to humans. 
pro_8_6	Animal tests proceed only when animal suffering is worth it	 Animal tests proceed only when animal suffering is "worth it" The potential human benefits of a particular animal test are typically weighed against the harms that it will entail for animals. Scientists are not wanton in inflicting tests on animals. Rather, they are often bound to meet specific ethical requirements in the trade-off. The harm of the testing must be thought "worth it" for the benefits that it will produce. animal research is justified because it has reducing human suffering.
con_8_1	Killing animals undermines the dignity life	 Killing animals undermines the dignity life If we can kill and take life animal life for certain ends, don't we undermine the value and dignity of life generally? 
con_8_2	The ends (human benefits) don't justify the means (animal testing)	The ends (human benefits) don't justify the means (animal testing) It is a common argument that it is dangerous and invalid for the ends to justify the means in society. This is often argued against utilitarian government actions that are performed with the intention of producing a certain desirable societal end, but whose means are unethical and violate human rights. Animal experimentation falls squarely into this ethical trap of justifying the ends (human benefits) by the means (animal testing). This is wrong, particularly because animals should enjoy many of the basic rights extended to humans, such as life and/or dignity. It is not acceptable to argue, "it's true that animal testing is really tortuous, but the human benefits justify it". Such utilitarian arguments fallaciously violate basic animal rights, and so can never be justified, no matter how great the supposed human benefits. 
con_8_3	Humans should ban animal testing selflessly, because it's moral	 Humans should ban animal testing selflessly, because it's moral 
con_8_4	Animal testing may benefit human science, but costs human morals	 Animal testing may benefit human science, but costs human morals George Bernard Shaw - "Vivisection is a social evil because if it advances human knowledge, it does so at the expense of human character."[10]
con_8_5	Animal rights promotes the true science of humans and animals as kin	 Animal rights promotes the true science of humans and animals as kin Animal testing and the subjugation of animals undermines a fundamental scientific reality; that humans and animals are kin. With humans and Chimpanzees sharing 99.4% of their genetic code, and humans and mice sharing 99% of their genetic code, it is important to recognize that humans are, on a scientific basis, the kin of animals. The testing of animals undermines this scientific understanding by subjugating animals. This is harmful to broader scientific progression in society.   
con_8_6	Societies that adopt animal rights progress morally	 Societies that adopt animal rights progress morally Because animal rights can be seen as an individual moral advancement, it can also bee seen as a societal moral advancement. 
con_8_7	Animal rights is not anti-science, but ethics must constrain science.	Animal rights is not anti-science, but ethics must constrain science. Many argue that animal rights activists are simply anti-science. This misunderstands the intentions of animal rights activists. They fully acknowledge that they science is important and even that animal testing can lead to major advancements in science. But, as is typically said, before science should ask if it can make certain advancements, it needs to ask if it should. Ethics has authority over all human endeavors, including science.
con_8_8	Philosophy of compassion for animals is better than testing benefits	 Philosophy of compassion for animals is better than testing benefits George Bernard Shaw - "Vivisection is a social evil because if it advances human knowledge, it does so at the expense of human character."[11]  
con_8_9	Adopting the philosophy of animal rights is individual fulfilling	 Adopting the philosophy of animal rights is individual fulfilling
con_8_10	The benefits to human beings cannot outweigh the suffering of the animals	The benefits to human beings cannot outweigh the suffering of the animals. Bernard Rollin argues that any benefits to human beings cannot outweigh animal suffering.
con_8_11	Animal testing for non-life-saving human products is unjust	 Animal testing for non-life-saving human products is unjust "Animal Experiments". BBC.co.uk. Updated August 17th, 2004 - "Animals are still used to test items like cleaning products, which benefit mankind less than medicines or surgery". Animal testing should only be conducted where it could potentially save human life. This is the only way in which the intentional harm and destruction of animal lives could be justified. 
con_8_12	Humans to receive the sole benefits while tested animals lose entirely.	Humans to receive the sole benefits while tested animals lose entirely. 
con_8_13	Testing impregnated animals and their offspring is immoral.	Testing impregnated animals and their offspring is immoral. Oregon Regional Primate Research Center are known to impregnate monkeys, expose the mothers and their unborn babies to nicotine, and then test and kill the born baby to discover the effects of tobacco. This is unethical.
con_8_14	Animal testing is contrary to principles of compassion and peace	 Animal testing is contrary to principles of compassion and peace 
con_8_15	Animal rights are connected with the broader human rights movement	Animal rights are connected with the broader human rights movement
con_8_16	Eating animal flesh is wrong; so too is animal testing	Eating animal flesh is wrong; so too is animal testing
con_8_17	Animal testing and farming is comparable to Nazi genocide	 Animal testing and farming is comparable to Nazi genocide Ingrid Newkirk (PETA) - "Six million Jews died in concentration camps, but six billion broiler chickens will die this year in slaughter houses."[12]
headline_9	Animal benefits: Do animals generally benefit from advances made in animal testing?
pro_9_1	Animal testing has improved understanding of animals and their welfare.	Animal testing has improved understanding of animals and their welfare. What is often overlooked in this debate is the subject of veterinary medicine. It is in the interests of animals themselves that experiments be done on animals to test medicines and surgical procedures for using on animals themselves, not just on humans. Animal experimentation can be in the interests of animals as well as of humans. Heart worm medication was devised from research on animals and has to day helped in saving the lives of many dogs. Animal research has also provided better understanding of cat nutrition and the reasons behind as to why cats live longer and remain healthier are better understood.[13]
con_9_1	Humans must give consent before medicines are tested on them - animals never give consent	Humans must give consent before medicines are tested on them - animals never give consent It is only acceptable to test human medicines on human beings if they give their consent. Non-human animals are never able to give such consent. It is therefore never acceptable to test medicines on perfectly healthy animals, even if the treatments are for use on other animals.
con_9_2	People would never want their own pets tested; why other animals?	 People would never want their own pets tested; why other animals? People that have pets typically develop an affection and even love for their pets, and often believe that their pets return that love and affection. They generally believe that animals have feelings, express happiness, and feel pain and suffering at times. Most would never allow their own pets to be subjected to testing for most of the above reasons. Why then would they believe it acceptable to subject other animals to such testing; animals that have the same capacity for the above feelings? 
headline_10	Alternatives: Are alternatives to animal testing inadequate?
pro_10_1	Alternatives are being used; animal testing is a last resort	 Alternatives are being used; animal testing is a last resort Alternatives are being used in place of animal testing when it is possible. Cell-based and computer studies, for instance, frequently occur before any animal testing is done, and this often proves adequate. In general, where alternatives exist and are practical, they are being used. 
pro_10_2	Animal testing appropriate when there are no alternatives	 Animal testing appropriate when there are no alternatives Coalition for Medical Progress, a UK-based pro-animal testing group. "The People’s Petition". on 20 April 2006. - "2.) I believe that medical research using animals, carried out to the highest standards of care and welfare, and where there is no alternative available, should continue in the UK."
pro_10_3	Alternatives cannot replace animal testing for certain objectives	 Alternatives cannot replace animal testing for certain objectives 
pro_10_4	Cells and other surrogates cannot be used in the case of behavioral experiments (psychiatry etc.)	Cells and other surrogates cannot be used in the case of behavioral experiments (psychiatry etc.) - Cells don't have tissue and organs. They are not living systems. It is hence impossible to get results of interaction between these systems. 
pro_10_5	There is no alternative to animals in testing immunities	 There is no alternative to animals in testing immunities
con_10_1	There are adequate alternatives to animal experimentation	There are adequate alternatives to animal experimentation There are plenty of alternatives to animal experimentation for achieving the desired end of aiding humans and fighting human suffering. These use of these alternatives should be more aggressively pursued, and a greater cost should be associated with animal experimentation relatively speaking. Alternative techniques include:
con_10_2	Alternatives are not being used when it is not practical, which is wrong.	Alternatives are not being used when it is not practical, which is wrong. The main reason why many alternatives to animal testing are not being used is that they are impractical or too costly; it is not because alternatives do not exist. The problem with this is that it makes it appear as though it is only valuable to save animal lives when it is practical. This places the dignity of animal life far below its actual value. 
headline_11	Environment: Does animal testing have little to no impact on the environment?
pro_11_1	Animal testing actually helps in testing whether products are environmentally friendly	Animal testing actually helps in testing whether products are environmentally friendly What is animal testing? Shell.com - "No organisation can commission animal testing without being sensitive to understandable   concerns about the issue in society. However, all responsible businesses have to ensure that their products are safe for their employees, customers, the wider public and the environment. New product developments have delivered many benefits to society, but they must be demonstrated to be safe.
con_11_1	Preventing animal testing is beneficial to the environment	Preventing animal testing is beneficial to the environment Tom Regan, an American animal right philosopher. "The Philosophy of Animal Rights". Retrieved May 6th, 2008 - "9. The philosophy of animal rights is environmentally wise. 
headline_12	Regulations/abuse: Can regulations be adequate or is a total ban necessary?
pro_12_1	Instances of mistreatment in animal testing are very rare	Instances of mistreatment in animal testing are very rare  
pro_12_2	Legislation is already protecting animals from cruel treatment	Legislation is already protecting animals from cruel treatment This rules ensure that animal research is carried out in an ethical manner. 
pro_12_3	Animal suffering in experiments can be minimized.	Animal suffering in experiments can be minimized. Although in principle it is more important to reduce human suffering than to prevent animal suffering, in practice it is possible (and absolutely right) to keep animal suffering to an absolute minimum. Animal experimenters should aspire to the highest levels of animal welfare in their laboratories, using anaesthetics wherever possible and keeping animals in clean, comfortable, and healthy conditions. In short, it is possible to experiment on animals without being cruel to animals.
pro_12_4	Many experimental animals are killed before they have a chance to suffer.	Many experimental animals are killed before they have a chance to suffer. If animal testing were to be outlawed it would be impossible to attain the significant knowledge that is necessary to eliminate the suffering and premature deaths of humans.
pro_12_5	Tested animals are treated humanely.	Tested animals are treated humanely. Animal testers are often instructed to treat their animals like their own pets.
pro_12_6	Animals are usually only used for testing for specific studies.	Animals are usually only used for testing for specific studies.
pro_12_7	Allegations of animal abuse are reviewed by pier board.	Allegations of animal abuse are reviewed by pier board.
pro_12_8	Testers have an incentive to take care of animals for experiments.	Testers have an incentive to take care of animals for experiments. The abuse or neglect of animal test subjects does the researcher no good, as any results from an animal who has been kept in less-than-ideal conditions may well contaminate or even negate information obtained through an experiment.
con_12_1	Reform and regulation is not enough; animal testing must be banned	Reform and regulation is not enough; animal testing must be banned
con_12_2	The current scale of animal experimentation is unacceptable	The current scale of animal experimentation is unacceptable
con_12_3	Strict controls have not prevented researchers from abusing animals	Strict controls have not prevented researchers from abusing animals In practice, as everyone knows, animals are not routinely treated well by animal experimenters. Apart from the fact that millions of animals die each year in experiments, others are often not adequately anaesthetised and are abused by handlers and experimenters. It is idealistic to suppose that this will ever stop as long as society endorses vivisection.
con_12_4	Animals endure tremendous stress from being locked up.	Animals endure tremendous stress from being locked up.
con_12_5	Argument: Genetically modified animals often contract genetic diseases	Argument: Genetically modified animals often contract genetic diseases
con_12_6	The human benefits of animal experimentation are not proven.	The human benefits of animal experimentation are not proven.
con_12_7	The number of animals used in experiments should be reduced by.	The number of animals used in experiments should be reduced by. 
con_12_8	Improving experimental techniques	Improving experimental techniques
con_12_9	Improving techniques of data analysis	Improving techniques of data analysis
con_12_10	Sharing information with other researchers	Sharing information with other researchers
con_12_11	Animal testing is frequently repetitive and wasteful.	Animal testing is frequently repetitive and wasteful. 
headline_13	Genetic modifications: Is the genetic modification of animals appropriate?
pro_13_1	The genetic modification of animals need only be well regulated.	The genetic modification of animals need only be well regulated. There are indeed new issues raised by the advent of genetic engineering and 'transgenic' animals; these, like all animal experiments should be closely monitored so as to minimise animal suffering. The fact that there are new issues here does not mean that there should never be any experiments on animals.
con_13_1	The creation of genetically modified animals for testing in immoral.	The creation of genetically modified animals for testing in immoral. The advent of genetic technologies has made possible all sorts of new and horrific acts of animal exploitation, from cloning sheep to creating mutant and hybrid creatures with no dignity or quality of life at all. We should end animal experimentation before things get even worse.
headline_14	Sources: Are the sources of animals used in laboratories appropriate?
pro_14_1	Animal trafficking of animals can be better regulated.	Animal trafficking of animals can be better regulated. While it may be true that animal testing has created an international demand for animals that can be used in laboratories, and that this has led to some illicit trading, there are many measures that can be taken to stop such illicit trade. The fact that this trade exists is not a case against animal testing in general, but simply against its execution.
con_14_1	Animal testing creates a high demand for animals and depletes populations	Animal testing creates a high demand for animals and depletes populations Animals used by laboratories for testing purposes are largely supplied by dealers who specialize in the trade. These include breeders who supply purpose-bred animals; businesses that trade in wild animals; and dealers who supply animals sourced from pounds, auctions, and newspaper ads. Animal shelters may also supply the laboratories directly. Some animal dealers are reported to engage in kidnapping pets from residences or illegally trapping strays, a practice dubbed as bunching. In any case, the demand for animals from all of these sources is increased by the practice of animal testing. An investigation in 2007 highlighted the primate trade from Malayasia and Spain. In February 2008, the High Commission of Malayasia confirmed to the BUAV that a ban on the primate trade would be reinstated following the BUAV investigation.[14]
headline_15	Cosmetics: Is the use of animals in cosmetic testing appropriate?
pro_15_1	The Food and Drug Administration  approves of animal testing in the case of cosmetics	The Food and Drug Administration  approves of animal testing in the case of cosmetics Animal Testing, CFSAN/Office of Cosmetics and Colors, US Food and Drug Administration, Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition,Revised May 3, 1999, June 9, 2005 and April 5, 2006 "The FD&C Act does not specifically require the use of animals in testing cosmetics for safety, nor does the Act subject cosmetics to FDA premarket approval. However, the agency has consistently advised cosmetic manufacturers to employ whatever testing is appropriate and effective for substantiating the safety of their products. It remains the responsibility of the manufacturer to substantiate the safety of both ingredients and finished cosmetic products prior to marketing.Animal testing by manufacturers seeking to market new products may be used to establish product safety."
con_15_1	Cosmetics testing on animals is not required by govts	 Cosmetics testing on animals is not required by govts In Defense of Animals. - "These [cosmetic] companies claim they test on animals to establish the safety of their products and ingredients for consumers. However, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) does not require animal testing for cosmetics, and alternative testing methods are widely available and lead to more reliable results."
con_15_2	Cosmetic testing on animal skin is irrelevant to human skin.	Cosmetic testing on animal skin is irrelevant to human skin.
con_15_3	Cosmetic testing on eyes is faulty; caustic chemicals can be determined by chemistry.	Cosmetic testing on eyes is faulty; caustic chemicals can be determined by chemistry. Humans can easily determine that a chemical is bad for the eyes simply by studying the pure chemistry involved, rather than putting an animal through intense pain and discomfort.
headline_16	Interest groups: Are the various interest groups acting abusively?
pro_16_1	Animal experimentation protester violence has undermined their case	 Animal experimentation protester violence has undermined their case  
pro_16_2	Animal rights groups have misled public about animal testing	Animal rights groups have misled public about animal testing
con_16_1	Those in favor of animals testing are often practicing the science and biased.	Those in favor of animals testing are often practicing the science and biased. 
con_16_2	Researchers often repeat animal tests only to maintaining funding	Researchers often repeat animal tests only to maintaining funding  over and over, rather than risk losing grant money.
headline_17	Religious arguments: What are the religious arguments in this debate?
pro_17_1	God commanded man to worship Him and His presence in humans over animals.	God commanded man to worship Him and His presence in humans over animals. Romans 1:25 (Contemporary English Version): "They gave up the truth about God for a lie, and they worshiped God's creation instead of God."
pro_17_2	Humans are only creatures with immortal souls.	Humans are only creatures with immortal souls.
pro_17_3	Humans have dominion over animals	Humans have dominion over animals   There are certain animals that have evolved with humans, through mutual self-interests in survival, to become "domesticated" by humans. Cats, dogs, pigs, and chickens are examples. Our "dominion" over these animals is certainly biological and evolutionary. Animal testing is certainly justified on these "domesticated" animals. 
con_17_1	Legitimate religions should uphold animal welfare	 Legitimate religions should uphold animal welfare Abraham Lincoln - "I care not much for a man's religion whose dog and cat are not the better for it."[15]  
con_17_2	Bible says harming animals is equivalent to harming humans	 Bible says harming animals is equivalent to harming humans
con_17_3	Many religions teach that both humans and animals have immortal souls.	Many religions teach that both humans and animals have immortal souls. 
con_17_4	If animals do not immortal souls, their time on earth should be especially protected.	If animals do not immortal souls, their time on earth should be especially protected.
con_17_5	The Bible teaches responsible stewardship not tyrannical dominion over animals.	The Bible teaches responsible stewardship not tyrannical dominion over animals.
con_17_6	God made animals free and does not want them imprisoned by men	 God made animals free and does not want them imprisoned by men Jacques Deval, Afin de vivre bel et bien - "God loved the birds and invented trees.  Man loved the birds and invented cages."[16]
con_17_7	Animals would depict humans as the devil if they could	 Animals would depict humans as the devil if they could William Ralph Inge, Outspoken Essays, 1922 - "We have enslaved the rest of the animal creation, and have treated our distant cousins in fur and feathers so badly that beyond doubt, if they were able to formulate a religion, they would depict the Devil in human form."[17]  
con_17_8	Man must be merciful to animals to receive mercy from God	 Man must be merciful to animals to receive mercy from God Pierre Troubetzkoy - "Why should man expect his prayer for mercy to be heard by What is above him when he shows no mercy to what is under him?"[18] 
con_17_9	Men are protective of themselves, but not God's work	 Men are protective of themselves, but not God's work Joseph Wood Krutch - "When a man wantonly destroys one of the works of man we call him a vandal.  When he destroys one of the works of god we call him a sportsman."[19]  
headline_18	Public opinion: Do publics support animal testing?
pro_18_1	Polls suggesting a degree of public support	Polls suggesting a degree of public support A 2005 UK MORI poll suggested that 75 per cent of Britons support animal research for medical purposes.[20]
pro_18_2	British Prime Minister Tony Blair supports animal testing	British Prime Minister Tony Blair supports animal testing and signed a petition in support of it while he was prime minister. He said it was "a sign of just how important I believe it is that as many people as possible stand up against the tiny group of extremists threatening medical research and advances in [the UK]."
con_18_1	Polls show massive public support for banning animal testing for  specific household products	Polls show massive public support for banning animal testing for  specific household products
con_18_2	Animal rights enjoy significant support even among conservatives	 Animal rights enjoy significant support even among conservatives "Exploring 'Dominion'. Matthew Scully on animals. A Q&A by Kathryn Jean Lopez". National Review Online. December 3, 2002 - "Lopez: What, in your experience, do the 'greens' make of you — a conservative, Republican-administration vet, sticking his neck out on animal rights?
con_18_3	Animal rights are gaining substantial ground in European laws	 Animal rights are gaining substantial ground in European laws 
con_18_4	The animal rights movement is showing great progress in America	 The animal rights movement is showing great progress in America 
