title	Polygamy
question	Should marriage to more than one person be legal?
headline_1	Should marriage to more than one person be legal?
headline_2	Marriage/family: Does polygamy conform with principles of marriage/family?
pro_2_1	The idea that a man can love only one women is artificial and false	The idea that a man can love only one women is artificial and false. 
pro_2_2	Polygamy reduces the impulse to adultery and resulting divorces	 Polygamy reduces the impulse to adultery and resulting divorces 
pro_2_3	Polygamy is O.K. as long as multi-partner relations of all kinds are also allowed.	Polygamy is O.K. as long as multi-partner relations of all kinds are also allowed. These could include women marrying multiple husbands, or gay, lesbian, and even bisexual partners. This openness to all kinds of multi-partner relations would combat any concerns that polygamy is merely patriarchal (with the man at the top). If all varieties are possible, it is impossible to argue that the law is biased toward patriarchy in polygamy.
pro_2_4	Polygamy can't undermine marriage any more than it is undermining itself	Polygamy can't undermine marriage any more than it is undermining itself The institution of marriage is already broken, with divorce rates as high as 50% in many countries. Therefore, what exactly are people trying to protect against polygamy? The "institution of marriage"? What institution? It doesn't seem that there is much to protect, so polygamy shouldn't be held up this account.
pro_2_5	Polygamous families are more dynamic and nurturing of diverse interests	 Polygamous families are more dynamic and nurturing of diverse interests 
pro_2_6	Polygamy counters loneliness associated with small two-parent families	 Polygamy counters loneliness associated with small two-parent families 
pro_2_7	Polygamy is not about sex, but about strong and stable families.	Polygamy is not about sex, but about strong and stable families. 
pro_2_8	Polygamy helps ensure that fathers stick around for their children	 Polygamy helps ensure that fathers stick around for their children 
pro_2_9	Polygamy is common in the animal kingdom; why not in humans?	Polygamy is common in the animal kingdom; why not in humans?
pro_2_10	Polygamy is common in some apes; from which humans descended	Polygamy is common in some apes; from which humans descended 
pro_2_11	Polygamy's long and widespread history suggest it has merit	  Polygamy's long and widespread history suggest it has merit 
con_2_1	Polygamy undermines the traditional institution of marriage.	Polygamy undermines the traditional institution of marriage. Polygamy undermines the traditional institution of marriage, trivializing the union of two people.
con_2_2	Polygamy wrongly promotes patriarchal principles in society	 Polygamy wrongly promotes patriarchal principles in society 
con_2_3	Polygamous men cannot reciprocate equally the love they receive from their wives.	Polygamous men cannot reciprocate equally the love they receive from their wives. Carrying for a wife is about more than supplying her with material needs, something polygamist husbands are frequently capable of doing for their many wives. It is also about more than treating all wives equitably and even "loving" them equitably. It is, rather, about providing a wife with reciprocal attention, love, sexual attention, and feelings of individual value and meaning. This is reflected in the notion of the yin and the yang; parity and complementarity between two partners. A man with even just two wives is incapable of reciprocating equally the love and care he may receive from each of them. He will fall short to some degree with each of wives and violate the notion of reciprocity in marriage. 
con_2_4	Polygamy sacrifices love between mates to other considerations	 Polygamy sacrifices love between mates to other considerations 
con_2_5	Polygamy leaves some men with no women to marry; socially destabilizing	 Polygamy leaves some men with no women to marry; socially destabilizing With an essentially 1:1 male to female ration in the world, a man that accumulates three wives can be seen as depriving two other men of wives. In this zero-sum reality, polygamy is unsustainable, and results in many social frictions as men compete intensely for the "scarce" wives and as many of them fail to secure them.  
con_2_6	Large polygamous families generally enjoy lower quality of life	 Large polygamous families generally enjoy lower quality of life Saye R. Gbetu. "A Case Against Legalizing Polygamy". The Perspective. September 13, 2001 - "With all things being equal, the quality of life for a family decreases as the family size increases."
con_2_7	Polygamous family dynamics are complicated and unstable	 Polygamous family dynamics are complicated and unstable Stanley Kurtz. "Polygamy Versus Democracy. You can't have both." The Weekly Standard. June 5th, 2006 - "Polyamorists emphasize that multipartner unions take intense and constant work. Yet this need for a higher level of monitoring and negotiation only highlights the forces pushing against stability."
con_2_8	Polygamy does nothing to reduce the impulse toward adultery outside of the household.	Polygamy does nothing to reduce the impulse toward adultery outside of the household. Adultery is based on a desire for the ‘other’, for something outside the known, outside the home. Polygamy does nothing to combat this; adultery still occurs in polygamous societies. Indeed, polygamy encourages adultery as it dilutes the idea of fidelity from being loyalty to one person, substituting the legitimacy of intercourse with many.
headline_3	Male interests: Does polygamy meet or undermine male interests?
pro_3_1	Men have an inherent desire to have many wives and multiply.	Men have an inherent desire to have many wives and "multiply". Men have an inherent desire to mate very frequently. But, it is not possible with a single wife to have multiple children in rapid succession (or as frequently as a man wishes to have sex and thus procreate). Clearly, men have a desire to have sex and procreate more frequently than every nine months, the period of time that a man would have to wait if in a monogamous marriage. Thus, the only way for a man to satisfy the inherent desire to procreate with a high frequency is if he marries multiple wives, whereby he can satisfy his desire to have and and procreate in rapid succession. 
pro_3_2	Polygamy reduces the impulse to adultery and resulting divorces	 Polygamy reduces the impulse to adultery and resulting divorces "Practical Aspects of Polygamy". Polygamy.com. May 03, 1997 
pro_3_3	Polygamy ensures men don't shirk commitments to those they have sex with	 Polygamy ensures men don't shirk commitments to those they have sex with Polygamy encourages men to make a commitment to those that they have sex with, as opposed to only having sex with them once because they possess another wife.
con_3_1	Polygamy allows men to avoid controlling their sexual impulses	 Polygamy allows men to avoid controlling their sexual impulses Men should be able to control their sexual impulses with reason and control. This is very important to avoiding an obsession with sexuality and a distraction from other important elements of life. Philosophers throughout history have stressed the hazards of uncontrolled sexual impulses. Yet, polygamy allows men to let their sexual impulses loose without control and reason guiding the impulse to have sex and procreate. This damages discipline among men, allows their sexual impulses to become a controlling obsession and distraction, and allows sex, procreation, and child-rearing to become the dominant factor in a man's life. This is unbalanced and unhealthy.   
con_3_2	Polygamy leaves some men with no women to marry; socially destabilizing	 Polygamy leaves some men with no women to marry; socially destabilizing Polygamy is unsustainable, or at least inequitable in this way. With many women marrying a single man, many men will be left without wives. Certainly, this would be depressing and even disastrous for these men. The injunction against premarital sex means, for men, no sex, ever in your life. In other societies, this would not present such a drastic problem, but wide scale polygamy would at a minimum, result in severe depression for a large segment of the male populace. And make no mistake, it would eventually become common.  
con_3_3	With a lower availability of women, polygamy creates bitter competitions between men	 With a lower availability of women, polygamy creates bitter competitions between men When a few men win all the wives in a community, many men are left without wives and the opportunity to live fulfilling lives with a lover, sex, and children. Realizing the costs of failing to secure wives, men will compete viciously for a scarce supply of wives. This competition can prove nasty, violent, back-stabbing, and socially damaging.
con_3_4	Polygamous men are strained in managing household complexities	 Polygamous men are strained in managing household complexities 
headline_4	Female interests: Does polygamy benefit the women that engage in it?
pro_4_1	Polygamy is an empowering lifestyle for women	 Polygamy is an empowering lifestyle for women Elizabeth Joseph. "Polygamy, The Ultimate Feminist Lifestyle". May 03, 1997 - "Polygamy is an empowering lifestyle for women. It provides me the environment and opportunity to maximize my female potential without all the tradeoffs and compromises that attend monogamy. The women in my family are friends. You don't share two decades of experience, and a man, without those friendships becoming very special.
pro_4_2	Polygamous families provide women with an ideal support network	 Polygamous families provide women with an ideal support network "Why not Mr. and Mrs. - & Mrs... & Mrs...?". The Jerusalem Post. Apr 2, 2006 - "Now if polygamy came back into vogue, women in such marriages could form an amicable sorority, taking on duties they liked rather than what is imposed on them as wife, mother and homemaker in most monogamous relationships."
pro_4_3	Polygamy provides wives with a sisterhood of life-long friends	 Polygamy provides wives with a sisterhood of life-long friends Polygamous wives often consider themselves in a loving sisterhood or sorority, in which they are best friends with their "sister wives". 
pro_4_4	Polygamous women can choose the right husband, even if he is married	 Polygamous women can choose the right husband, even if he is married Women shouldn't have to pass-up a man that they fall in love with simply because they are married. Polygamy allows them to attempt to marry that man, thus satisfying their desire to be with the one they love. The same applies to men, who may fall in love with multiple women. 
pro_4_5	Polygamy is not about increasing sex for men, but security for women	 Polygamy is not about increasing sex for men, but security for women Ameyatma Das. "We Are, Therefore, In Favor Of Polygamy". Vaishnava News. February 22, 1999 - "The point was not to facilitate more sex for men, but to give best protection to the women." 
pro_4_6	Polygamous women can scrutinize married men in action before marrying	 Polygamous women can scrutinize married men in action before marrying Women that are interested in marrying a polygamous man, benefit from seeing how he acts with his other wives, and thus achieve confidence in what they will get as future wives. This helps women avoid marrying bad or potentially dangerous spouses.  
pro_4_7	Polygamous wives have security of husbands not having to divorce to re-marry	 Polygamous wives have security of husbands not having to divorce to re-marry Women, being aware that men are promiscuous and desirous creatures, worry that their husbands will fall in love with other women, and divorce them to be with those other women. But, in a polygamous marriage, they don't actually have to worry, as their husbands can marry other women without divorcing them. 
pro_4_8	Polygamy is only appropriate when a man can provide for more than one wife	 Polygamy is only appropriate when a man can provide for more than one wife "Polygamy means to protect, to take care of and maintain the wife. He told one social worker that polygamy was not illicit. But, Srila Prabhupad explained, only if the man is able to maintain his wives. Otherwise, if he cannot maintain another wife, then to want another wife is not actually for protection. Then all he wants is to have sex only. That is irresponsible and thus illicit sex. Even if a man cannot maintain one wife, but has sex with her and gets her pregnant, this is not good. Who will maintain the woman and child? Then it is irresponsible sex, and that is illicit. But, if the man can properly maintain additional wife, then it is not illicit, then it is proper religious marriage, protection, of the women.
pro_4_9	Larger polygamous families are greater financial support networks	 Larger polygamous families are greater financial support networks
pro_4_10	Many women join polygamous families to climb the social ladder.	Many women join polygamous families to climb the social ladder. It is OK for women to join polygamous marriages in order to climb the social ladder. This is often a good way for women to get out of poverty and achieve a greater respect and status in a community.
con_4_1	Polygamist priests convince women that God made them inferior	 Polygamist priests convince women that God made them inferior 
con_4_2	Polygamy ordains men to dominate and abuse wives	 Polygamy ordains men to dominate and abuse wives
con_4_3	Polygamy is abusive in depriving women of the right to consent (above).	Polygamy is abusive in depriving women of the right to consent (above). 
con_4_4	Polygamy is abusive in depriving women of many individual rights (above).	Polygamy is abusive in depriving women of many individual rights (above).
con_4_5	Polygamy makes individual wives feel that they are insufficient	 Polygamy makes individual wives feel that they are insufficient Rabbi Shmuley Boteach. "The Case Against Polygamy". The Huffington Post. April 23, 2008 - "There is good reason to outlaw polygamy. Marriage is the most romantic institution because it establishes the inviolate uniqueness of its participants. A woman is made to feel that she is the one and only to her husband. A husband's devotion confers upon his wife the blessings of primacy and exclusivity. But polygamy subverts that pledge, establishing not a woman's uniqueness, but her ordinariness. Her husband marries her with the express understanding that she alone will not satisfy him. He requires others. She is inadequate.
con_4_6	Polygamy is traumatizing and depressing for wives	 Polygamy is traumatizing and depressing for wives "Legalize Polygamy?". New York Times, letter to the editor. March 14, 2006 - "As a clinical psychologist who has treated women formerly involved in plural marriages, I can attest that the effects on them are devastating: profound depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, sexually transmitted diseases and poverty, among many others."
con_4_7	Polygamy causes jealousy and competition between wives	 Polygamy causes jealousy and competition between wives Andrea Sachs. "Polygamy Survivor Carolyn Jessop". Time. Oct. 24, 2007 - "There was tremendous competition between the wives, wasn't there?
con_4_8	Polygamous men cannot reciprocate equally the love they receive from their wives.	Polygamous men cannot reciprocate equally the love they receive from their wives. Carrying for a wife is about more than supplying her with material needs, something polygamist husbands are frequently capable of doing for their many wives. It is also about more than treating all wives equitably and even "loving" them equitably. It is, rather, about providing a wife with reciprocal attention, love, sexual attention, and feelings of individual value and meaning. This is reflected in the notion of the yin and the yang; parity and complementarity between two partners. A man with even just two wives is incapable of reciprocating equally the love and care he may receive from each of them. He will fall short to some degree with each of wives and violate the notion of reciprocity in marriage. 
con_4_9	Polygamous women do not receive a fair commitment from their husbands	 Polygamous women do not receive a fair commitment from their husbands Marriage is largely about committing to a woman. But, polygamous women discover that men are only making open-ended commitments to their wives that allow for them to make new commitments to new wives. These new commitments undermine or diminish previous commitments.
con_4_10	Older wives suffer when new wives enter a polygamous marriage	  Older wives suffer when new wives enter a polygamous marriage Steve Sailer. "The Problem with Polygamy". United Press International. January 17, 2002 - "I've been following accounts of polygamous societies ever since I saw an article in the early 1980s about a Kenyan man with 150 wives. It set the template for every first-hand description of polygamy that I've read since. The reporter diligently interviewed the youngest wife, who thought polygamy was terrific since it allowed her to marry the richest, handsomest, and most respected man in her village.
con_4_11	Competition between wives for husband's attention erodes the sisterhood	 Competition between wives for husband's attention erodes the sisterhood While a sisterhood can emerge among polygamous women, it is typically undercut by jealousy and competition between them for the attention of their husband. 
con_4_12	Polygamy fosters the spread of venereal diseases	 Polygamy fosters the spread of venereal diseases As a husband has unprotected sex with his many wives, venereal diseases are commonly spread around. 
con_4_13	Polygamy leaves women sexually unsatisfied and prone to adultery	 Polygamy leaves women sexually unsatisfied and prone to adultery Women have strong sex drives; often equally as strong as men. It is difficult for them, therefore, to have to share their husband with other wives, and go many nights and sometimes weeks without sex. Such sex deprivation can create an impulse among polygamous women to seek sex elsewhere in affairs with other men.
con_4_14	Legalizing polygamy will cause all women to worry about husbands pursue new wives	 Legalizing polygamy will cause all women to worry about husbands pursue new wives If polygamy is legalized, does that mean that all existing husbands in monogamous marriages can all of a sudden seek additional wives? If so, this will create great worry among married women.
headline_5	Children: Do children in polygamous families benefit or lose?
pro_5_1	Anti-polygamy police raids traumatize children.	Anti-polygamy police raids traumatize children. Raids by police of polygamous sects, and the division of children from their mothers is a highly traumatizing experience for children. If the interest of the state is to, in part, protect these children, their raids are doing more harm than good.   
pro_5_2	Legalization will allow polygamist to send children to mainstream education.	Legalization will allow polygamist to send children to mainstream education. The illegality of polygamy forces polygamists to live in the shadows of society. In these shadows, children are unable to obtain a proper education. If polygamy is legalized, polygamous families will come out of these shadows and will be able to send their kids to proper schools. 
con_5_1	Polygamous fathers can't give their children adequate attention	 Polygamous fathers can't give their children adequate attention "Should Polygamy Be Legal?--Posner's Comment". The Becker-Posner Blog. October 22, 2006 - "In polygamous households, the father invests less time in the upbringing of his children, because there are more of them."
con_5_2	The children of older wives suffer when new wives enter a polygamous marriage	The children of older wives suffer when new wives enter a polygamous marriage New wives in polygamous families are often the subject of great attention from their husbands. This draws attention away from the children of other wives. And, as new children are born by the new wife, attention is taken away from the other children. Children are aware of this, and respond resentfully to new family members.
con_5_3	Polygamy subjects children to an environment of rivalry and insecurity	 Polygamy subjects children to an environment of rivalry and insecurity Children realize that the attention they receive from their father is conditioned in large part on the presence of other siblings and the nature of their mother's relationship to the father. This builds resentment and competition between siblings, which is unhealthy and potentially dangerous.  
con_5_4	Polygamy forces children into a life they often don't want.	Polygamy forces children into a life they often don't want. The children lose because they are being forced to work and doing things that they don't want to.Some children are being forced either to marry at 14 to their own relative like cousin or even brother. Some girls start having children before the age of 17. Many children are basically not living a normal childhood and are suffering.Some children even try to escape the polygamy world in order to start a new life.
headline_6	Gay marriage: How does gay marriage play into this debate?
con_6_1	Polygamy is not equivalent to gay marriage in nature	 Polygamy is not equivalent to gay marriage in nature 
headline_7	Marriage benefits: Would giving polygamy marriage benefits create problems?
pro_7_1	Any problems with polygamous couples can be remedied.	Any problems with polygamous couples can be remedied. Any legal complications that could arise are either easily remedied or are already being dealt with in the courts for monogamous couples.  The fact of the matter is that the existence of legally recognized polygamous families would not alter the landscape of the nation, its laws, or its people significantly.  Many of the methods that would be used to provide remedies for things like child custody and divorce settlements already exist through the courts, and allowing polygamists to use them, while increasing the workload for civil servants, would cause no excessive burden or force the creation of any new entities to handle them.
con_7_1	Recognizing polygamy would cause a host of legal problems.	Recognizing polygamy would cause a host of legal problems. Regardless of whether polyamorous relationships are appropriate or if it's appropriate for people to have polygamous marriage ceremonies in religious institutions the benefits provided by legally recognized marriage pose serious problems. A group of people, such as a street gang, corrupt public officials, corrupt businessmen, or even a terrorist cell could get legally married to avoid testifying against each other in court. Divorce proceedings would be complicated. Even if just one spouse was getting a divorce since marriage involves sharing property so the court would have to figure out who brought what into the marriage to protect the property of the spouses not getting divorced. Determining child custody would also be difficult. Which spouses are eligible for custody rights? All of them? Just the two that had the child? Any spouse that was in the marriage at the time the child came into their custody? Determining how to divide inheritance would also be complicated. Furthermore it has a greater abuse potential in immigration law than monogamy. A person could bring in thousands of people just by marrying them. This could pose a grave threat to national security, since a terrorist or spy could use this to get his associates into the country easier, and combined with spousal immunity obtaining evidence in order to stop them could prove difficult.
