title	Australian republic vs. monarchy
question	Should Australia become a republic or continue as a constitutional monarchy?
headline_1	Independence: Is a republic important to Australian independence from Britain?
pro_1_1	Ending the monarchy would establish Australian independence from Britain	 Ending the monarchy would establish Australian independence from Britain William Byrne. "Republic Versus Monarchy". December, 1995 - "Denial of Australian independence
pro_1_2	Australia's history on Britain is irrelevant, Australia has a unique identity.	Australia's history on Britain is irrelevant, Australia has a unique identity. Australia no longer is dependent on England and there is no need to be part of the Commonwealth. Europeans from Engaland may have been the first white people in Australia but Aborigines have been there for over 40,000 years.
pro_1_3	The Australian monarch is, in fact, a foreign monarch	 The Australian monarch is, in fact, a foreign monarch Supporters of the monarchy often argue that the Queen is not a foreign queen, but "our queen", and thus Australian. This notion is fictitious, not only because the Queen does not reside in Australia, but also because she does not focus her efforts on representing Australians. How could she? She has to represent Britain as well as dozens of other commonwealth countries simultaneously. But, this makes her a foreigner to Australians in the way of her interests and actions.
pro_1_4	Foreign monarchs cannot adequately represent Australians	 Foreign monarchs cannot adequately represent Australians A central argument made by Australian republicans is that, as Australia is an independent country, it is inappropriate for the same person to be both the head of state of more than one country. They argue that a person who is resident primarily in another country cannot adequately represent Australia, neither to itself, nor to the rest of the world. As Australian Republican Movement member, Frank Cassidy put it in a speech on the issue: "In short, we want a resident for President".
pro_1_5	The queen represents British not Australian interests abroad	 The queen represents British not Australian interests abroad When the queen travels abroad, she focuses almost all of her energies on representing Britain's interests. The foreign policy interests of Australia are of secondary concern, and receive little attention. This means that the queen is not representing the interests of Australians, further the undemocratic nature of the monarchy in Australia.
pro_1_6	Ending the monarchy would foster an independent identity in Australia	 Ending the monarchy would foster an independent identity in Australia The monarchy is a direct reflection of Australia's past as a British colony and continues to symbolize Australia's subservience to the British crown. Such symbolism has a powerfully negative effect on Australians' sense of independence and identity. Ending the monarchy and establishing a republic would constitute a substantial stride in the direction of creating a greater sense of independence and national pride and identity.
pro_1_7	Australia could actually remain in the commonwealth as a republic	 Australia could actually remain in the commonwealth as a republic Establishing a republic does not necessarily mean leaving the commonwealth. Certainly, it would establish a fully-independent, self-contained leadership structure in Australia. But this need not be equated with leaving the commonwealth. Australia could stay in the commonwealth just as many republics have opted to do in the 20th and 21st centuries. These nations are known as commonwealth republics. 
con_1_1	Australia was founded by the Crown and so owes continued allegiances in the commonwealth.	Australia was founded by the Crown and so owes continued allegiances in the commonwealth. The first European settlers in Australia were from England, arriving in the 1780s between the American and French revolutionary wars. For nearly 100 years, Australia was considered a British colony, and was completely dependent on England for money and resources. In 1901, Australia became independent but decided to remain a part of the commonwealth, where it continued to receive aid from Britain. It remains part of the British commonwealth with full independence, except for authority of the Queen and her appointed Governor-General. Given the fact that Australia would not exist without the initial decision of the crown to colonize Australia, it seems entirely appropriate that a token of allegiance remain to the Crown within the commonwealth system. To deny this allegiance and to demand independence would be to ignore Australia's history and the debt of gratitude it owes to Britain. 
con_1_2	The commonwealth is a sound community for Australia even in modernity.	The commonwealth is a sound community for Australia even in modernity. The commonwealth has its place, even in modernity. It is a community-based on democracy and mutually beneficial relationships that is respected in modernity. Therefore, Australia should not feel compelled to leave the commonwealth to express its independence in the modern world; that independence is already expressed and respected.  
con_1_3	Australians can vote to exit the commonwealth, but have chosen to remain.	Australians can vote to exit the commonwealth, but have chosen to remain. Australians have chosen to remain within the commonwealth. Their hands have not been forced on the issue. Therefore, they have not been denied independence in any way. They have chosen to remain within the commonwealth on their own accord.
con_1_4	The Queen is not a foreign queen, but is the Queen of Australia	 The Queen is not a "foreign queen", but is the "Queen of Australia" "Queen of Australia". Retrieved April 21st, 2008 - "The title, role and legal aspects of the Queen of Australia are not well understood by most Australians including those who advocate a republic and by most of those employed within the media industry. The purpose of this page is to help Australians get a better understanding of the legal role of the Queen in her capacity as the Queen of Australia. To refer to the Queen of Australia as the the British Queen, the English Queen or the foreign monarch is fallacious when considering the Queen's role as outlined in the Australian Constitution and the several laws of Australia that relate to constitutional matters. There are several documents that legally confirm the Queen's role as Queen of Australia. Some of those aspects are addressed below."
con_1_5	The governor-general is an Australian head of state	 The governor-general is an Australian head of state Republicans make the argument that the monarchy needs to be abolished in order to secure an Australian head of state. This presumes  that the Queen is the non-Australian head of state. But, what about the governor-general? The governor-general, part of the monarchy, is the head of state and a native Australian? So, the monarchy system does provide an Australian head-of-state. 
headline_2	Functionality: Is a republic more functional? Or does the monarchy work just fine?
pro_2_1	The Australian monarchy is broken in so far as it is undemocratic.	The Australian monarchy is "broken" in so far as it is undemocratic. In modernity, the degree to which a government is "undemocratic" is, in large part, the degree to which it can be considered "broken". Therefore, in the areas where Australian government is considered undemocratic - in the hereditary control of the monarch and appointment of the Governor-General - it can certainly be considered "broken". This does not mean all of Australian government is broken, and certainly most of it "works", but those undemocratic things that are "broken" can and should be changed by adopting a republican form of government. 
pro_2_2	That the Australian monarchy works is a faulty argument against positive change	 That the Australian monarchy "works" is a faulty argument against positive change The argument that Australia's government "isn't broken, so why fix it", is what is known as a status quo argument. It promotes the functionality of the status quo as a reason to avoid the hassle of change. This is an invalid argument because it shirks the responsibility within government to improve governance. When something can be made better, it should be made better. Turning Australia into a republic from a monarchy will certainly make it more democratic, and thus better. Therefore, this action should be taken. 
pro_2_3	The monarchy might work, but it is inappropriate and wrong	 The monarchy might "work", but it is inappropriate and wrong That something works does not make it right. That Australia's monarchy works does not make it democratic nor right. In fact, it is wrong. When something is wrong, it matters not that it works; it must be changed.
con_2_1	Republicanism is not more modern than constitutional monarchy	 Republicanism is not more modern than constitutional monarchy Constitutional monarchies exist in some of the most developed societies on earth. Britain, Canada, and Australia are among them. There are both strengths and weaknesses to a constitutional monarchy, but it is not clear that a republic is better, more democratic, and more stable overall. It is wrong to presume that a republic is a more advanced and modern system, and that Australia will inevitably make the move to a republican form of government. [see more arguments on this position in the next section]
con_2_2	If the Australian constitutional monarchy isn't broke, don't fix it	 If the Australian constitutional monarchy isn't broke, don't fix it Pragmatic monarchists have maintained that, whatever the argued weaknesses of the current system, it also had many strengths; following the motto of "If it ain't broke, don't fix it". The Australian Monarchist League's Phillip Benwell told ABC in April 2008, "At a time when there's no problem with our constitution, when there's no constitutional crisis, why move to fix something that doesn't need fixing, just because people don't like one part of our constitution -- and that is the Queen and the Crown?".[1]
con_2_3	The Queen has never abused her power in Australia.	The Queen has never abused her power in Australia. If the British Queen Elizabeth II violated the trust of Australians and abused her power despotically, perhaps there would be a major claim against the status quo. But, neither she nor the Governor-General has done so. 
headline_3	Democracy: Will a republic make Australia more democratic? Is this important?
pro_3_1	Australia should perfect its democracy by becoming a republic	 Australia should perfect its democracy by becoming a republic Any system that relies on hereditary appointment instead of elections is, inherently, undemocratic. There is really no dispute about this. The only question regards whether people think it is a problem that Australia's process for selecting its head of state is undemocratic. 
pro_3_2	A crowned republic in Australia is not an adequate republic	 A "crowned republic" in Australia is not an adequate republic William Byrne. "Republic Versus Monarchy". December, 1995 - "Australia is a "Crowned Republic" anyway. It has been argued that Australia already has the "form" of a Republic, since we are basically an independent country. This ignores the concepts of true national sovereignty and independence, and of development of the national culture and psyche. 
pro_3_3	Monarchy undermines democratic development in Australia	 Monarchy undermines democratic development in Australia Adam Wynn said, "It is inconsistent if not hypocritical to try to instill in people an appreciation of democratic ideals, when our own head of state is the epitome of the exact opposite".[2]
pro_3_4	Monarchies risk bringing completely incapable people to power	 Monarchies risk bringing completely incapable people to power Monarchies, and their hereditary processes, can bring a child, mentally disabled, or plainly despotic person to power. In other words, the Australian monarchic system plays Russian Roulett with the country and its citizens' future. 
pro_3_5	Desires for republic grow with increasingly democratic Australians	 Desires for republic grow with increasingly democratic Australians Cassandra Gelade. "Is the Republic inevitable?". June 7th, 1994  - "Since a change in national consciousness has engendered a much greater focus on inclusionary policies that reflect the social conditions of the 1990s, the Australian constitution becomes increasingly out of date."
con_3_1	Republicanism is not more modern than constitutional monarchy	 Republicanism is not more modern than constitutional monarchy (above) 
con_3_2	The monarchy checks the abuse of power by the executive	 The monarchy checks the abuse of power by the executive Selwyn Johnston, Indepednent, Elected Representatives' Advocate. "The 'no' case against a republic, and 'for' our constitutional monarchy." Retrieved April 21st, 2008 - "Today [the monarchy] represents the denial of total power. While the Crown is at the head of all our great Institutions of State, nobody else can be the head of any of them. Thus the Crown represents the ultimate and untouchable guarantee of our freedom and our genius. Republicans resent the power that the Crown denies them. They resent the Senate having the power to block supply to a rogue Government. They resent the Governor-General's ability to sack a rogue Prime Minister."
con_3_3	Australia is already a republic; a crowned republic	Australia is already a republic; a "crowned republic" Australia is not a monarchy. It is a democratic republic that puts the power in the hands of its people, but that also has small, largely-symbolic monarchic presence in the form of the Queen and the Governor General. This is why its can be considered a "crowned republic". Since Australia is already a republic, it need not be re-made into a different kind of republic. It is a sufficiently sound republic as is. 
con_3_4	The governor-general represents all Australians; not just his/her voters	 The governor-general represents all Australians; not just his/her voters With an elected head of state, a very large percentage of a national population find themselves being led by a person they did not vote for. The governor-general, conversely, is appointed by the monarch and so is able to stand above an election process that would divide his or her constituents. The governor-general, therefore, can represent all Australians, which is democratically appealing.
con_3_5	Australians democratically chose a constitutional monarchy; it wasn't imposed	 Australians democratically chose a constitutional monarchy; it wasn't imposed Having chosen to establish a constitutional monarchy in 1901, Australians cannot now complain. They democratically enshrined a form of government that they now must live with.
con_3_6	Australian republicans are making a blatant power grab	 Australian republicans are making a blatant power grab This isn't about democracy. This is about Republican elitist politicians wanting to increase their power by eliminating checks on them from the monarchy.
con_3_7	Reforming a constitution should be extremely exceptional in a democracy.	Reforming a constitution should be extremely exceptional in a democracy. Constitutions are supposed to enshrine the rights of a country's citizens permanently. It should be exceptionally rare, therefore, for a country to open its constitution to tampering.  
con_3_8	Australia's monarchic system is equally democratic as Britain's.	Australia's monarchic system is equally democratic as Britain's. Britain's constitutional monarchy is a model democracy. Australia's monarchy is equivalent in almost all respects. Whey, then, should we be concerned that Australia is undemocratic. It is not.
headline_4	Symbolism: What are the pros and cons of republican and monarchy symbols in Aus.?
pro_4_1	The symbolism of the Australian monarchy is important and bad	 The symbolism of the Australian monarchy is important and bad Some say that the Monarchy only has symbolic meaning, as a way to disclaim the significance of the monarchy and thus reduce the significance of the complaints raised against it. But, even if the monarchy had only a symbolic significance (which it does not - it engenders real power), its symbolic importance is both large and largely bad. The historic, commonwealth, hereditary, sexist, and even religiously discriminatory symbols associated with the crown are all significant, and significantly bad. They cannot be diminished in significance, only disowned. 
pro_4_2	The monarchy symbolizes principles Australians don't agree with	 The monarchy symbolizes principles Australians don't agree with Modern Australians are worldly people whom do not agree with antiquated notions associated with the crown, such as hereditary power, royal dignity, male primogeniture, Anglican church supremacy, and other forms of elitism associated with the crown. 
pro_4_3	The Australian monarchy symbolizes a history of tyranny	The Australian monarchy symbolizes a history of tyranny The British monarchy has a history of tyranny and imperial exploitation as much as democracy and the law. This history should not be respected as much as condemned. The crown's history is a liability to Australia's monarchy as much as an asset. 
pro_4_4	The monarchy is not actually a model family for Australians	 The monarchy is not actually a model family for Australians The royal family in Britain has not actually been a model of honor, dignity, and honesty. There have been many scandals that collectively are known as the "Royal Drama". This does not set a good example for Australians.
pro_4_5	An Australian republic will not mean rejecting the English heritage	 An Australian republic will not mean rejecting the English heritage The English heritage need not be rejected by establishing a republic. The history will certainly not be erased from the history books simply because Australia becomes a republic. In addition, an Australian republic would likely remain within the commonwealth, which would provide continual reminders of the British legacy in Australia.
pro_4_6	Seeking an Australian republic does not disrespect the queen	 Seeking an Australian republic does not disrespect the queen Many commonwealth countries are "crown republics". That they are republics does not offend the Queen. It will be no less the case if Australia becomes a republic.
con_4_1	Monarchy symbolizes all that Australia inherited from Britain	 Monarchy symbolizes all that Australia inherited from Britain Australians for a Constitutional Monarchy, wrote in August, 2007, "the Union Flag to remind us that we have inherited precious traditions of parliamentary democracy, faith, law and language."[3]  Australians should respect this heritage, and its flag and the monarch are an important part of doing so.   
con_4_2	The monarchy inspires justice, honor, and duty in Australia	 The monarchy inspires justice, honor, and duty in Australia The monarchy has a long history of justice, honor, and duty. The continued presence of the monarchy connects modern Australians to this history and inspires them to live up to it. Some describe this as the "glue" that binds Australian society together. 
con_4_3	The Queen has served, united, and uplifted Australians	 The Queen has served, united, and uplifted Australians The Queen has had a particularly beneficial role in Australian society since taking power in 1947. In particular, she has inspired honor, respect and duty among Australians, unified peoples around her principles and respect for the constitutions within the commonwealth nations, and prevented controversies and the abuse of power from boiling over into damaging conflicts. For this reason, she is very popular among the Australian public. Why should Australia go in a direction contradictory to this popularity (and the reasons underlying it) by pushing to establish a republic?
con_4_4	Many modern states like Australia have foreign elements in identity	 Many modern states like Australia have foreign elements in identity Tony Abbott. "Monarchy is the tie that binds us together." The Age. November 29, 2006 - "The very idea of the monarchy offends people accustomed to think in aggressive slogans. It's "foreign", although that has never been held against other institutions to which great deference is offered (such as the United Nations). It's shared with other countries, but so is our language and no one (so far) wants to change that."
con_4_5	The Australian Monarchy is just a symbol	The Australian Monarchy is just a "symbol" The British queen and monarch are not endowed with very much power in Australia. Her role is primarily symbolic, representing the commonwealth and its strong history of democracy, law, and faith. The symbol of the monarch should not be made into too big of an issue. Keeping they symbol will do very little to harm or benefit Australians; so the status quo should be maintained.
con_4_6	Republicanism is disrespectful to the queen.	Republicanism is disrespectful to the queen. Most Australians have a deep respect for the Queen. They should realize, however, that adopting a republican form of government would be a slap in the face to the Queen, abandoning her guidance and leadership on the basis that it cannot be trusted. Hasn't her historic leadership earned greater respect than that?
headline_5	Stability: Would a republic help stabilize Australian politics or is it the reverse?
pro_5_1	The Australian monarchy does not ensure stability	 The Australian monarchy does not ensure stability William Byrne. "Republic Versus Monarchy". December, 1995 - "The Monarch creates unity and stability
pro_5_2	Australia's monarchy is not really politically neutral	 Australia's monarchy is not really politically neutral William Byrne. "Republic Versus Monarchy". December, 1995 - the claim that the Monarch is politically neutral is not completely true. Indeed, the differences between Queen Elizabeth II and Margaret Thatcher (when she was Prime Minister) over British foreign policy became publicy known through the media.(36)
pro_5_3	An Australian president will be no more political than the monarchy	 An Australian president will be no more political than the monarchy
pro_5_4	The Australian monarchy is not necessary for national security post Cold War.	The Australian monarchy is not necessary for national security post Cold War. Supporters of the monarchy often argue that preserving the monarchy is necessary in upholding Australian national security. But, this was only true during the Cold War. Now, there are far fewer risks.
pro_5_5	Arguing that republicanism is divisive is a status quo argument	 Arguing that republicanism is divisive is a status quo argument William Byrne. "Republic Versus Monarchy". December, 1995 - "Republicanism is a divisive issue. This is just another "status quo" argument.
con_5_1	The Australian monarchy provides a non-political check on the political process.	The Australian monarchy provides a non-political check on the political process. Monarchists claim that the succession of an apolitical head of state provides a far more stable constitutional system compared to one involving appointing or electing a president who is likely to have a political agenda. The constitutional monarchy provides the basis for stable democratic government, with the Governor-General (the monarch's nominal representative) acting as an impartial, non-political "umpire" of the political process.
con_5_2	A partisan head of state in a republic can be problematic.	A partisan head of state in a republic can be problematic. Many Australians distrust the Australian political classes and believe the provision of executive powers to a local politician would result in an undesirably partisan head of state, and subsequent instability.
con_5_3	The monarchy checks the abuse of power by the executive	 The monarchy checks the abuse of power by the executive One of the reasons that Australia has enjoyed such great stability since its founding in 1901 is its constitutional check, in which the monarch can dismiss the Governor-General and the Governor-General can dismiss the Prime Minister in circumstances where these leaders abuse power or put the interests of Australia in jeopardy. The simple threat of dismissal also deters the Governor-General or the Prime Minister from abusing power. In the United States, many believe that President Bush abused his executive powers precisely because there was no check against such abuse (in a word, he could). This, some argue, allowed for the Iraq War and violations of individual rights in the name of the War on Terror, among other things. Australia's constitution prevents such abuses and subsequent instabilities from occurring by providing a check against it - the monarchy.
con_5_4	Republicanism in Australia incites tensions between Protestants and Catholics.	Republicanism in Australia incites tensions between Protestants and Catholics. It has also been claimed monarchism and republicanism in Australia delineate historical and persistent sectarian tensions with, broadly speaking, Catholics more likely to be republicans and Protestants more likely to be monarchists[9]. This developed out of a historical cleavage in nineteenth and twentieth century Australia in which republicans were predominantly of Irish Catholic background and loyalists were predominantly of British Protestant background[10]. Whilst mass immigration since the Second World War has diluted this conflict [11] — according to 2001 census data, 886,914 Australians identified themselves specifically as Catholics of Irish ethnicity and a total of 1,919,727 stated Irish ancestry, not to mention a large number of the Australian ancestry category would be of old Irish colonial immigration.[12] — the Catholic-Protestant divide has been cited as a dynamic in the republic debate, particularly in relation to the referendum campaign in 1999[13][14]. Nonetheless, others have stated that Catholic-Protestant tensions — at least in the sense of an Irish-British conflict — are at least forty years dead,[15] or simply "not there any more," having been replaced with a general conflict between secular and religious Australians.[16]
headline_6	Feasibility: Is establishing a republic feasible in Australia?
pro_6_1	Conducting a constitutional referendum in Australia would not be difficult.	Conducting a constitutional referendum in Australia would not be difficult. Refferendums are easy to conduct, it's a little bit like voting at an election. In the last century, over 30 referendums have been conducted in Australia. This should not be a constraint against reforming the constitution, nor should the costs, given how many referendums have been conducted on much less important issues in Australia.
pro_6_2	Drafting a Republican constitution in Australia would not be difficult	 Drafting a Republican constitution in Australia would not be difficult Senator Alan Eggleston. "The Republic: an idea that has reached its time". Address to the John Stuart Mill Society. September 22nd, 1997 - A Republican Constitution is too difficult to draft Conservative lawyers such as Sir Harry Gibbs have made fuss of the difficultly of drafting a set of words for a Republic constitution which would recreate the balances and political stability enjoyed by Australia under the present arrangements. Without doubt, the task will be complex, but I have long suspected more was being made of this difficultly than needed to be. To me, it has never been credible for monarchists to argue that, in a nation which has produced so many brilliant, clear thinking lawyers as Australia, a constitution could not be written which protected and preserved the rights of the Australian people, entrenched responsible parliamentary government under a Prime Minister and cabinet and created an institution for a Head of State not only having clearly designed and limited powers but also embodying formulae for the democratic means of resolution of crises should the good government of the Commonwealth be in jeopardy."
pro_6_3	An Australian republic could accommodate states that remain monarchies	 An Australian republic could accommodate states that remain monarchies Senator Alan Eggleston. "The Republic: an idea that has reached its time". Address to the John Stuart Mill Society. September 22nd, 1997 - "What about the Australian States? If the Commonwealth became a Republic it wouldn't matter in the interim if the States wanted to remain monarchies. This is the view of Professor George Winterton. The Federal Republican Constitution could accommodate the status of both monarchal and Republican states. In due course, I believe that the States would adopt a Republican mode."
pro_6_4	Desires for republic grow with increasingly democratic Australians	 Desires for republic grow with increasingly democratic Australians Cassandra Gelade. "Is the Republic inevitable?". June 7th, 1994  - "Since a change in national consciousness has engendered a much greater focus on inclusionary policies that reflect the social conditions of the 1990s, the Australian constitution becomes increasingly out of date."
con_6_1	Creating a republic would require dramatically re-writing Australia's constitution.	Creating a republic would require dramatically re-writing Australia's constitution. This is based on the notion that changing a constitutional monarchy to a republic demands much more than simply changing a couple of words in the constitution; it requires almost entirely re-writing it.
con_6_2	Reforming Australia's constitution to form a republic is too hard	 Reforming Australia's constitution to form a republic is too hard 
con_6_3	Harder in a republic to expel abusive executive	 Harder in a republic to expel abusive executive "An Australian republic is not a priority" Online Opinion. February 25, 2008 - "This is another subtle little check and balance that would not be available in a republic. A rogue PRIME MINISTER can be dismissed by our GOVERNOR-GENERAL, resulting in a free and fair election. All this is done at no extra cost, as opposed to the high cost republican models."
con_6_4	Establishing a republic would be costly to Australians	 Establishing a republic would be costly to Australians Barbara Greenwood in support of Australians for a Constitutional Monarchy - "The Queen costs the Australian taxpayer nothing at all until she visits this country with her staff, and then costs the Australian taxpayer only their combined accomodation and travel expenses. An elected president would obviously cost the Australian taxpayer considerably more."
con_6_5	Australia cannot force states to accept a republic	 Australia cannot force states to accept a republic Philip Benwell MBE. "Concerns over Constitutional Change". Cross bench Peers, House of Lords, London. 1999 - "Regardless of this, one State Attorney (a Republican) has commented that States which refuse must be forced to change to a Republic - comments which remind one of the war of words which ended in the American Civil War." 
con_6_6	Passing Australian republic constitutional referendum too difficult	 Passing Australian republic constitutional referendum too difficult Sir Robert Menzies' words, "to get an affirmative vote from the Australian people on a referendum proposal is one of the labours of Hercules."
con_6_7	A referendum on an Australian republic could cause a constitutional crisis if rejected by states	 A referendum on an Australian republic could cause a constitutional crisis if rejected by states If a referendum is held and passes, a constitutional change would then have to be approved by the states. The state, however, may reject the changes. This would create a constitutional crisis in which the Queen's authority is rejected by Australians, but the lack of state approval leaves the Queen as a legal sovereign over the people. This is a situation that must not be created.
con_6_8	Better not to rush a republic in Australia	 Better not to rush a republic in Australia Foreign Minister Stephen Smith said on April 20th, 2008, "I regard it as inevitable. I don't see it occurring in 2010. It's one of those things I think the nation state will attend to in due course."[4] 
con_6_9	Republic a bad idea before Queen Elizabeth II leaves Aus	 Republic a bad idea before Queen Elizabeth II leaves Aus Foreign Minister Stephen Smith told Network Ten. Britain's Queen Elizabeth II is hugely popular in Australia, and that "There's... something of a view in the community that the appropriate time to move is when the current monarch moves off from her position and whenever that might be."
con_6_10	All the coins would have to be changed.	All the coins would have to be changed. If Australia was to suddenly drop out of the Commonwealth, all the coins with the picture of the Queen and the $5 (with the Queen on it) would need to be changed. This would need to call a National Coin Changing Day or Period where Australians get new coins and can exchabge their money. Is that feasible?
headline_7	Priority/Inevitable: Is establishing a republic a priority or distraction? Is it inevitable?
pro_7_1	What is more important in Australia than creating a republic?	 What is more important in Australia than creating a republic? Some say that there are more important and pressing matters in Australia? Like what? Creating a fully democratic republic needs to be at the top of the list. Without a fully democratic, justice is not possible.
pro_7_2	Establishing a republic in Australia is inevitable	 Establishing a republic in Australia is inevitable Australia is trending toward greater democracy and a reduced role for antiquity institutions such as the monarchy.
con_7_1	Australian republicanism is a diversion from other pressing issues.	Australian republicanism is a diversion from other pressing issues. Republicanism in Australia is primarily about symbolism as opposed to the real problems facing Australia. It will only be a distraction of time and money that would better spent on more tangible problems in Australia.
con_7_2	Australian republicanism should be dealt with in the future.	Australian republicanism should be dealt with in the future. Even if there are good reasons to adopt a Republican form of government in Australia, now is not the time. It would be best done, for example, after the death of Queen Elizabeth II because she is popular.
headline_8	Sexual discrimination: Does the monarchy violate sexual discrimination laws?
pro_8_1	The monarchy violates Australian laws against gender discrimination	 The monarchy violates Australian laws against gender discrimination Succession to the British throne is based upon male primogeniture, in which male heirs take precedence and the right of succession belongs to the eldest son. The heir apparent has always been a male. A female heir to the throne can only be the heiress apparent, rather than the heiress presumptive ("presumptive" as she could be ousted at any time by the birth of a son to the reigning Monarch) if she were the sole, or eldest, surviving daughter of a dead heir apparent, who had no sons. A monarchy that promotes the sexist system of primogeniture is wrong and should be ended.
con_8_1	Queen Elizabeth II's existence undermines claims against a sexist Australian monarchy	Queen Elizabeth II's existence undermines claims against a sexist Australian monarchy While an issue can be made over primogeniture, it is somewhat odd that opponents of the monarchy claim that the monarchy is sexist when Queen Elizabeth II, a woman, has been Queen for over sixty years. Clearly, she is a woman in power, which helps combat sexism, and she has upheld the rights of woman in Australia. If anything, she has been a hugely positive force against sexism in Australia around the world. 
headline_9	Church and state: Does the monarchy violate separation of Church and State?
pro_9_1	The Australian monarchy violates the separation of church and state	 The Australian monarchy violates the separation of church and state Under the Act of Settlement, passed by the British Parliament in 1701, the monarch is prohibited from either being Catholic, or from marrying a Catholic. This law is in conflict with Australian anti-discrimination laws which prohibit arrangements under which males have precedence over females, or under which becoming or marrying a Catholic invalidates any legal rights.
con_9_1	The monarchy poses no real threat to secularism in Australia.	The monarchy poses no real threat to secularism in Australia. The principle of separating church and state was designed to protect freedom of belief from a tyrannical state. But, there is no indication that the Australian state is acting to surpess freedom of belief in any way. So, what is the concern?
con_9_2	Australian constitution does not separate of church and state; monarchy is O.K.	Australian constitution does not separate of church and state; monarchy is O.K. While many argue that the monarchy in Australia is unconstitutional due to its connection with the Anglican Church, this erroneously assumes that the constitution states a separation of Church and state. It doesn't. Therefore, any Anglican church influence in Australia is actually not at odds with the constitution. So, at leas the monarchy's Anglican connection is not creating a constitution crisis in Australia. As to whether a separation between church and state should exist (as opposed to the existing policy of "neutrality"), that is a question that has nothing to do with the Crown's policies and cannot be held against it; it is a question about the Australian constitution. 
con_9_3	The principal of neutrality between Church and State is justified.	The principal of "neutrality" between Church and State is justified. The Constitution calls for "neutrality" between state institutions and religion. This means that the Church can have a prominent position in public life so long as the state is neutral. Many argue this is better than having a "separation of Church and State" because it better enables the state to fund religious practices, as long as it does so neutrally. If this system is better, what is the problem with the monarchy?
headline_10	Popular opinion: What are the opinions of Australians on a republic vs. a monarchy?
pro_10_1	The 1999 referendum was rejected on specifics not the principle of Republicanism.	The 1999 referendum was rejected on specifics not the principle of Republicanism. It was the particular form of the republic offered which was criticised as the main reasion for the defeat of the referendum. Supporters of the republic disagreed about the best proposed mechanism for replacing the monarch and Governor-General with either a head of state appointed by the Parliament (which was widely criticised as being undemocratic), or with a directly-elected head of state (which was widely criticised as moving Australia away from the proven Westminster System toward an American-style presidential system, even though many Parliamentary republics directly elect non-executive Presidents). Many Republicans voted no, therefore, on the specifics of the referendum, despite supporting the general principle of moving toward a Republic. A referendum on the general principal of electing a head of state would have likely passed. If a new referendum is designed in these general terms, as a first step on the principals of a Republic, it would likely pass.
pro_10_2	The 2020 summit on 19-20 April, 2008 agreed with a republic system.	The 2020 summit on 19-20 April, 2008 agreed with a republic system. On 19-20 April, in Canberra, a 2020 summit was held where Australians gave ideas to the Prime Minister. Many people wanted for Australia to be a republic. They decided to have a vote and out of the 1000 people there, only 1 person voted 'no'. Australia does want a republic.
pro_10_3	Professor Tony Blackshield	Professor Tony Blackshield - "it is overwhelmingly clear that the Australian people want the head of state directly elected, and if that's what they want they should have it. I actually then began to think that there might be good reasons for direct popular election, that the people might actually be right."
con_10_1	Support for Australian republic has waned in recent years	 Support for Australian republic has waned in recent years Tony Abbott. "Monarchy is the tie that binds us together." The Age. November 29, 2006 - "Still, there is some reason to think that long-standing attachments and traditional loyalties have not entirely lost their appeal. Support for Australia becoming a republic (as measured by Newspoll) is 8 per cent below its 2000 peak. Strong support for becoming a republic is actually at its lowest among young people. Although the monarchy has been out of favour since 1993 (when Newspoll first recorded more republicans than monarchists), 29 per cent of people aged between 18 and 34 remain uncommitted on the question, with 26 per cent of young people actually against Australia becoming a republic. Given almost all commentators' need to declare themselves republican, this suggests that the young may be less conformist than their parents."
con_10_2	Queen Elizabeth II is hugely popular in Australia.	Queen Elizabeth II is hugely popular in Australia. 
con_10_3	The 1999 Republic referendum was voted down in Australia.	The 1999 Republic referendum was voted down in Australia. In this referendum, roughly 55% of the nation voted "no" and all states voted "no". This should be seen as a sufficient rejection of the idea of a republic in Australia; no new referendum is appropriate. 
con_10_4	Scattered Australian republic proposals undermine public support	 Scattered Australian republic proposals undermine public support "THE 'NO'  CASE AGAINST A REPUBLIC, and 'FOR' OUR CONSTITUTIONAL MONARCHY". - "Republicans claim, obviously erroneously, that there is a groundswell of public support for a republic; but how can there be, when they cannot answer the key question as to what sort of republic that groundswell supports?"
con_10_5	Australian republic favored by inner-city elites	 Australian republic favored by inner-city elites Australians for a Constitutional Monarchy convenor David Flint said, "It's something that is clung to very much by the inner-city elites. It doesn't interest the rank and file of the nation."[5]
