title	Tibet independence
question	Should Tibet seek and gain independence?
headline_1	
headline_2	General history: Are Tibet's general historical claims to independence justified?
pro_2_1	Tibet has enjoyed independence for the vast majority of its long history	 Tibet has enjoyed independence for the vast majority of its long history Tibet has existed as a state since 127 B.C. For nearly a millennium after its founding, it was entirely independent. In the 9th century, China and Tibet struck a deal to respect each other's sovereignty, securing Tibet's continued independence. In the 13th and 14th centuries, Tibet was subjugated by the Mongols as were the Chinese. During this time, Tibet could not have been considered part of China; both China and Tibet were conquered by the Mongols. Between the 14th and early 20th centuries, Tibet assumed some close relations with China, but always maintained its independence. In its closest relations, it could have been considered a vassal state of China, in which it paid tribute to China and received protection. But, the relationship was never denied the Tibetan government of its full independence to govern its internal affairs. And, finally, between 1911 and 1950, Tibet was a fully independent state. It is possible to conclude, therefore, that Tibet was an independent state through most, if not all, of its two thousand year history. This historical fact carries great weight in establishing Tibet's independence today.
pro_2_2	The PRC bases its legal claim to Tibet solely on historical grounds	 The PRC bases its legal claim to Tibet solely on historical grounds This argument is simply meant to frame the legal debate. The PRC makes no claim to sovereign rights over Tibet as a result of its military subjugation and occupation of Tibet following the country's invasion in 1949-1950. China does not argue that it has acquired sovereignty by means of annexation in this period. Rather, it bases its claim to Tibet solely on the theory that Tibet has been an integral part of China for centuries. Therefore, the below arguments against China's historical claims represent a complete legal case against China's claim to sovereignty over Tibet (starting in 1949).
pro_2_3	China bases its historical claim to Tibet on illegitimated Chinese documents	 China bases its historical claim to Tibet on illegitimated Chinese documents China's historical claim relies entirely on its own historical documents. It does not base any of its claim on Tibetan historical documents. Since China is the annexor in this relationship, such a full reliance on its own documents is invalid. The problem for China is, of course, that Tibet's own historical documents paint a clear history of Tibetan independence. These documents and their history of Tibetan independence should be given greater weight that China's self-satisfying documents, and they should help establish Tibet's rightful claim to independence.
pro_2_4	China's historical claim to Tibet is delegitimized by its historically forceful means.	China's historical claim to Tibet is delegitimized by its historically forceful means. While it may be possible to say that Tibet was part of China in its history, we need to ask deeper questions about how this happened. It is not legitimate for countries to stake claims on regions or other countries simply because they have conquered those other countries in parts of their histories. Turkey, for instance, cannot lay claim over Hungary simply because the Ottoman empire once conquered the region. The means by which a country acquired control over other countries is important. "Conquering" other countries or regions can be cited as, at a minimum, a less legitimate form of achieving sovereign control over a region. A history of acceptance, integration, and ideally democratic approval of the sovereign control of a government is a much more legitimate basis for laying sovereign claims down the line. On this basis, it is possible to argue that China's historical claim to Tibet is highly illegitimate, as it is based on a history of conquering and suppressing the Tibetan people against their will.
pro_2_5	A history of close-ties and military assistance does not equate to Chinese sovereignty.	A history of close-ties and military assistance does not equate to Chinese sovereignty. Many countries have close ties and even assist one another militarily. But, this does not equate to a history of sovereign control. "Tibet and China: Two Distinct Views". Rangzen.org. Retrieved 17.4.08 - "During the Manchu rule (1644-1911), the Qing army was asked by Tibetans to settle disputes. But, this does not support China's right to Tibet. If it did, then the U.S.A. should claim Kuwait and Haiti since it assisted these countries. In fact, on a number of occasions, Tibet exercised power over China, suggesting that perhaps Tibet should claim China!"
pro_2_6	The People's Republic of China cannot inherit ownership over Tibet.	The People's Republic of China cannot inherit ownership over Tibet. Even if Tibet was owned by past Chinese governments, why should this mean that the modern People's Republic of China should inherit such ownership? The People's Republic of China is not a descendant of past Chinese governments. Quite the contrary, it is a form of government that is entirely different than all past Chinese imperial (and other) forms of government. As such, any past claims to Tibet do not necessarily pass on to the modern Chinese government.
con_2_1	Tibet has been autonomous within China but never independent	 Tibet has been autonomous within China but never independent "Tibet: China's policy paper on Tibet". Information Office of the State Council of the People's Republic of China. May 2004 - "I. The Establishment and Development of Regional Ethnic Autonomy in Tibet
con_2_2	Historical independence is not a sufficient criteria for Tibetan independence in modernity.	Historical independence is not a sufficient criteria for Tibetan independence in modernity. Tibet should not be granted independence simply on the basis of Tibet's historical independence. If historical independence was a sufficient basis for granting independence in the modern world, there would be dozens of separatists movements around the world seeking and achieving independence. This would be destabilizing internationally.
con_2_3	Tibet's history as part of China for just the last 50 years is sufficient for China's continued sovereignty.	Tibet's history as part of China for just the last 50 years is sufficient for China's continued sovereignty. In modernity, contemporary historical claims are the most important historical claim to consider. China has governed Tibet since 1950. While it has had a self-admittedly mixed record in governing Tibet, it has, in recent decades, helped invest in and modernize Tibet, while respecting the core tenants of its culture. These efforts demonstrate that the Chinese government has done a respectable, albeit imperfect, job of governing Tibet. This is all the historical sovereignty one need look at. Sovereignty is an expression not simply of historical claims, but of the contemporary willingness and competency to govern a region effectively. China has done an adequate job of this since 1950, and so should retain Tibet within its sovereign control.
con_2_4	Tibet has been an indivisible part of China de jure since Mongol (Yuan) conquest 700 years ago.	Tibet has been an indivisible part of China de jure since Mongol (Yuan) conquest 700 years ago. In the past 700 years, subsequent Chinese governments - Ming Dynasty, Qing Dynasty, Republic of China, and People's Republic of China - have all succeeded the Yuan Dynasty in exercising de jure sovereignty and de facto power over Tibet. This creates a sufficient historical basis for China to claim sovereignty over Tibet.
con_2_5	China, under the Republic of China government, continued to maintain sovereignty over Tibet between 1912 and 1950.	China, under the Republic of China government, continued to maintain sovereignty over Tibet between 1912 and 1950. During this period, no country gave Tibet diplomatic recognition. Tibet itself acknowledged Chinese sovereignty by sending delegates to the Drafting Committee for a new constitution of the Republic of China in 1925; to the National Assembly of the Republic of China in 1931; to the fourth National Congress of the Kuomintang in 1931; to a National Assembly for drafting a new Chinese constitution in 1946; and to another National Assembly for drafting a new Chinese constitution in 1948.
con_2_6	The Tibetan independence movement has been driven in history by a malicious Western imperialist campaign against China.	The Tibetan independence movement has been driven in history by a malicious Western imperialist campaign against China. The PRC considers all movements aimed at ending Chinese sovereignty in Tibet, starting with British attempts in the late 19th century and early 20th century, to the CTA today, as one long campaign abetted by malicious Western imperialism aimed at destroying Chinese integrity and sovereignty, thereby weakening China's position in the world.
headline_3	127 B.C - 9th century, beginnings: In this period, was Tibet independent?
pro_3_1	127 B.C marks the beginning of a long history of Tibetan statehood.	127 B.C marks the beginning of a long history of Tibetan statehood. China does not claim any sovereignty over Tibet before around the 8th and 9th centuries. But, Tibet became a state in roughly 127 B.C. Therefore, for over eight hundred years, Tibet was indisputably independent, given the fact that the Chinese government does not make any claim to Tibet in these years. That Tibet was certainly independent from China for its first eight hundred years of existence certainly is a strong factor in Tibet's favor.
con_3_1	This period is irrelevant; China cities later historical claims to Tibet.	This period is irrelevant; China cities later historical claims to Tibet. China does not attempt to claim sovereignty over Tibet on historical periods as old as this, but, rather, on the period of time starting with the Mongol invasions in the 13th century and leading into modernity. China's contiguous sovereign control over Tibet for the past seven centuries is sufficient; the fir millennium of Tibet's existence is irrelevant.
headline_4	Tang Dynasty (618-907): Does Tibet have a claim to independence in this period?
pro_4_1	In 821, China and Tibet agreed to respect each other's sovereignty	 In 821, China and Tibet agreed to respect each other's sovereignty In 821, after centuries of periodic fighting, China and Tibet signed a treaty where boundaries were confirmed, and each country promised respect for the other's territorial sovereignty. While relations between China and Tibet were growing warmer and trade-relations increasing, this is common between states, and certainly does not indicate unification.
pro_4_2	The Atlas of Chinese History Maps depicts Tibet as an independent country before 1280.	The Atlas of Chinese History Maps depicts Tibet as an independent country before 1280. These maps were published by Chinese Social Science Institute in Beijing.[1] Indeed, it does not appear that China makes any significant historical claim to having sovereignty over Tibet until the 13th century and the Mongol invasions. But, it should be re-affirmed that Tibet's unquestionable independence between 127 B.C. and the 13th century concedes that Tibet was independent for, at a minimum, the majority of its existence. This, creates an uphill battle for China's historical claim to Tibet.
con_4_1	During the Tang Dynasty, close social and economic relations were built between the Tibetans and the Hans	During the Tang Dynasty, close social and economic relations were built between the Tibetans and the Hans In the Tang Dynasty (618-907), the Tibetans and Hans [Chinese] began a path toward unification. This started with the marriage of a Chinese princess to Songtsen Gampo in 641. This led to many further political and kinship ties and close economic and cultural relations, the most notable of which was an agreement in 821 that laid a solid foundation for the ultimate founding of a unified nation.
con_4_2	The marriage of Chinese and Tibetan royalty in 641 led to unification.	The marriage of Chinese and Tibetan royalty in 641 led to unification.
con_4_3	Agreement of 821 is signal of Tibet unification with China	 Agreement of 821 is signal of Tibet unification with China "China, Tibet and Chinese nation. Facts and Figures on Tibet in 1999". The Statistics Bureau of Tibet, 1999. - "The Tang-Tubo Alliance Monument erected in 823 still stands in the square in front of the Jokhang Monastery. The monument inscription reads in part, 'The two sovereigns, uncle and nephew, having come to agreement that their territories be united as one, have signed this alliance of great peace to last for eternity! May God and humanity bear witness thereto so that it may be praised from generation to generation.'"
headline_5	Mongols/Yuan Dynasty (1271-1368): Did Tibet maintain independence in this period?
pro_5_1	Between the 13th and 14th centuries Tibet was under Mongol not Chinese rule	Between the 13th and 14th centuries Tibet was under Mongol not Chinese rule During this period, the Mongol leader, Genghis Khan, conquered most of Eurasia including China. Thus, instead of China being able to claim a right to Tibet, Mongolia could assert a claim to both China and Tibet. In other words, China has no legitimate claim to Tibet stemming from this period.
pro_5_2	Mongolia gave diplomatic recognition to the Tibetan state in 1207	 Mongolia gave diplomatic recognition to the Tibetan state in 1207 Prior to the Mongol invasions, the Mongols actually recognized Tibet as a state that was independent from China. This makes it impossible to claim that Tibet was unified with China before the invasions. It also makes it clear that the Mongols never intended to unify the two countries; having already acknowledged Tibet's right to its own independence.
pro_5_3	Even during the periods of nominal subjugation to the Mongol and Qing Empires, Tibet was largely self-governing.	Even during the periods of nominal subjugation to the Mongol and Qing Empires, Tibet was largely self-governing. A continues show of Tibetan autonomy through its history, even during the Mongol invasions, demonstrates its rightful historical claim to independence.
con_5_1	Tibet has been part of China since 13th century Mongol invasions	 Tibet has been part of China since 13th century Mongol invasions In the past 700 years, subsequent Chinese governments - Ming Dynasty, Qing Dynasty, Republic of China, and People's Republic of China - have all succeeded the Yuan Dynasty in exercising de jure sovereignty and de facto power over Tibet. This creates a sufficient historical basis for China to claim sovereignty over Tibet.
headline_6	Ming Dynasty (1368-1644): Did Tibet have independence during this period?
pro_6_1	The Ming Dynasty (1368-1644) did not actually	The Ming Dynasty (1368-1644) did not actually rule Tibet. Michael C. van Walt, an international legal scholar and a board member of the International Campaign for Tibet. "Tibet File No.18: The Legal Status of Tibet". Cultural Survival Quarterly (Vol. 12, 1988) - "The Ming Dynasty, which ruled China from 1368 to 1644, had few ties to and no authority over Tibet."
con_6_1	The Ming Dynasty maintained sovereignty and control over Tibet	 The Ming Dynasty maintained sovereignty and control over Tibet "China, Tibet and Chinese nation. Facts and Figures on Tibet in 1999". The Statistics Bureau of Tibet, 1999. - "Ming Dynasty (1368-1644)
headline_7	Qing Dynasty (1644-1911): Was Tibet independent during this period?
pro_7_1	The Qing Emperor accepted The Fifth Dalai Lama in 1652 as the leader of an independent Tibet	The Qing Emperor accepted The Fifth Dalai Lama in 1652 as the leader of an independent Tibet The Emperor also treated Him as Divinity on Earth. During this period, Tibet was known in Chinese as Wu-si Zang or Wu-si Guo (guo meaning country).
pro_7_2	Tibet had only satellite relationship with the Manchus (Qing, 1644-1911)	 Tibet had only satellite relationship with the Manchus (Qing, 1644-1911) "Tibet and China: Two Distinct Views". Rangzen.org. Retrieved 17.4.08 - "During the Manchu rule (1644-1911), the Qing army was asked by Tibetans to settle disputes. But, this does not support China's right to Tibet. If it did, then the U.S.A. should claim Kuwait and Haiti since it assisted these countries. In fact, on a number of occasions, Tibet exercised power over China, suggesting that perhaps Tibet should claim China!"
pro_7_3	Tibet waged war in the 19th century independent from China.	Tibet waged war in the 19th century independent from China. Although supporters of an independent Tibet concede Chinese influence increased during the Qing dynasty, they point out that Tibet waged war against Jammu in 1841-1842 and with Nepal in 1854-55 without Chinese assistance. This is a clear indication of effective sovereignty.
con_7_1	The Qing Dynasty handled Tibetan affairs on behalf of the Central Government	 The Qing Dynasty handled Tibetan affairs on behalf of the Central Government When the Qing Dynasty [1644-1911] replaced the Ming Dynasty in 1644, it further strengthened administration over Tibet. (A High Commission was set up in Lhasa in 1727 under an 'amban' [imperial resident], who supervised the "handling of Tibetan affairs on behalf of the central government," and who enjoyed "equal standing with the Dalai Lama...").
headline_8	1911-1949: Was Tibet independent during this period?
pro_8_1	Tibet was an independent state between 1911 and 1950	 Tibet was an independent state between 1911 and 1950 Michael C. van Walt, an international legal scholar and a board member of the International Campaign for Tibet. "Tibet File No.18: The Legal Status of Tibet". Cultural Survival Quarterly (Vol. 12, 1988) - "From 1911 to 1950, Tibet successfully avoided undue foreign influence and behaved, in every respect, as a fully independent state. The 13th Dalai Lama emphasised his country's independent status externally, in formal communications to foreign rulers, and internally, by issuing a proclamation reaffirming Tibet's independence and by strengthening the country's defenses. Tibet remained neutral during the Second World War, despite strong pressure from China and its allies, Britain and the USA. The Tibetan Government maintained independent international relations with all neighbouring countries, most of whom had diplomatic representatives in Lhasa.
pro_8_2	Tibetan independence was recognized by world powers during WWII	 Tibetan independence was recognized by world powers during WWII Great Powers such as the United States and Great Britain recognized the independence of Tibet during WWII and requested permission from the Tibetan government to allow entry of their military troops into the territory of Tibet. While the recognition was not always official, it existed nevertheless. And, in reaction to the Chinese invasion of 1949, there were many "silent" protests among great powers. While "silent" for geopolitical reasons at the time, these protests demonstrate how the world saw China's invasion as illegitimate.
con_8_1	San Yet-sen announced in 1911 unification China with Tibet	 San Yet-sen announced in 1911 unification China with Tibet "Tibet: Its Ownership and Human Rights Situation," also known as the "China White Paper". Issued by Information Office of the State Council of the People's Republic of China in September 1992. (The definitive Chinese Government line on Tibet) - "The Qing Dynasty was overthrown in the 1911 Chinese Revolution. During his inauguration speech as first president of the Republic of China, Sun Yat-sen announced 'the unification of the Han [Chinese], Manchu, Mongol, Hui and Tibetan peoples.'"
con_8_2	Between 1911 and 1950, Tibet was represented diplomatically by China.	Between 1911 and 1950, Tibet was represented diplomatically by China. Tibet itself acknowledged Chinese sovereignty by sending delegates to the Drafting Committee for a new constitution of the Republic of China in 1925; to the National Assembly of the Republic of China in 1931; to the fourth National Congress of the Kuomintang in 1931; to a National Assembly for drafting a new Chinese constitution in 1946; and to another National Assembly for drafting a new Chinese constitution in 1948. It would not have done so if it was an independent country.
headline_9	1949, invasion/liberation: Did China acquire Tibet by illegitimate means in 1949?
pro_9_1	China's invasion of Tibet in 1950 was illegal and makes its occupation of Tibet illegal	China's invasion of Tibet in 1950 was illegal and makes its occupation of Tibet illegal China's invasion of Tibet in 1950 was an unjustifiable act of  unprovoked aggression contrary to the norms of customary and conventional international law.
pro_9_2	Tibet was a fully independent country when China invaded in 1949	 Tibet was a fully independent country when China invaded in 1949 It was recognized by international law, including a defined territory, a government, tax system, unique currency, unique postal system and stamps, army, and the ability to carryout international relations.
pro_9_3	How could China have liberated Tibet in 1949 if it claims prior sovereignty.	How could China have "liberated" Tibet in 1949 if it claims prior sovereignty. It is odd that China, on the one hand, claims that Tibet has been part of China since the 13th century, and then, on the other, claims that it "liberated" Tibet in 1949 from an unfortunate past? But, liberated it from what? You can only liberate a country from a situation that your country does not control. Therefore, the Chinese government's use of the term "liberate" seems to be an admission that China has not governed Tibet contiguously since the Mongol invasions. Either this, or it would have to argue that it was liberating Tibet from circumstances that China created while Tibet was under its control.
pro_9_4	Argument: Tibet had a distinct national identity and independence before China illegally invaded in 1949	Argument: Tibet had a distinct national identity and independence before China illegally invaded in 1949
con_9_1	China liberated Tibet in 1949 from an oppressive history	 China liberated Tibet in 1949 from an oppressive history "Tibet: China's policy paper on Tibet". Information Office of the State Council of the People's Republic of China. May 2004 - "The founding of the People's Republic of China in 1949 ended the dark history of the semi-colonial, semi-feudal China, realized unification of the country, unity of ethnic groups and people's democracy, and brought hope to the Tibetan people that they could control their own destiny in the large family of the motherland.
con_9_2	The liberation of Tibet in 1949 was peaceful, not violent.	The liberation of Tibet in 1949 was peaceful, not violent.
con_9_3	By liberating Tibet, China safeguarded its sovereign and territorial integrity.	By liberating Tibet, China safeguarded its sovereign and territorial integrity. With rampant Western imperialism following the end of WWII, protecting Tibet from such imperialism was very important. China's liberation of the country was designed to achieve these ends.
headline_10	1951, Seventeen point agreement: Was this agreement illegitimate?
pro_10_1	The Seventeen Point Agreement was signed under duress and is illegitimate	The Seventeen Point Agreement was signed under duress and is illegitimate  "Tibet and China: Two Distinct Views". Rangzen.org. Retrieved 17.4.08 - In 1951, "the 17-point agreement was imposed on the Tibetan Government by the threat of arms after 40,000 PLA troops had already seized Tibetºs eastern provincial capital, Chamdo. The Tibetan delegates were threatened. The seal of the Tibetan Government was forged by Peking. In Tibet, The 14th Dalai Lama could not freely express His disapproval. However, soon after arriving in India, He repudiated this Agreement stating it was "thrust upon the Tibetan Government and people by the threat of arms."
pro_10_2	China violated Tibet autonomy as called for in Seventeen Point Agreement	 China violated Tibet autonomy as called for in Seventeen Point Agreement The Seventeen Point Agreement actually gave a significant degree of autonomy to the Tibetan people. When, after being forced to sign the agreement, Tibetans began exercising the autonomy provided in the Seventeen point agreement, China reneged. This voids the agreement and any importance the Chinese government places on it.
con_10_1	The Seven Point Agreement gave Tibet a good deal with strong autonomy	 The Seven Point Agreement gave Tibet a good deal with strong autonomy "Tibet: China's policy paper on Tibet". Information Office of the State Council of the People's Republic of China. May 2004 - "The "17-Article Agreement" provides that "According to the ethnic policy in the Common Program of the CPPCC, under the unified leadership of the Central People's Government, the Tibetan people shall have the right to exercise regional ethnic autonomy."
con_10_2	The Seven-Point Agreement was signed after both parties reached an agreement	The Seven-Point Agreement was signed after both parties reached an agreement  On 23 May 1951, the Agreement of the Central People's Government and the Local Government of Tibet on Measures for the Peaceful Liberation of Tibet (ie: the Seventeen-Point Agreement) was signed after the delegates of the Central People's Government and the Tibetan Local Government had reached agreement on a series of questions concerning Tibet's peaceful liberation.
headline_11	1959, Uprising: What does the 1959 uprising suggest about Tibetan independence?
pro_11_1	Tibetans opposed China's occupation since the invasion in 1949	 Tibetans opposed China's occupation since the invasion in 1949. After the invasion in 1949, organized protests first began in 1952 and led to an revolt in 1959 that was brutally suppressed by the Chinese government. It demonstrates that the Tibetans strongly opposed the occupation from the beginning; enough to be willing to fight and die for their independence. This indicates that the Chinese occupation was never seen as legitimate by Tibetans, that it violated an inherent sense of identity and sovereignty, and, as such, that Tibetans retain a strong right to self-determination and independence.
con_11_1	China quelled the feudal intentions of the 1959 Tibetan uprising	 China quelled the feudal intentions of the 1959 Tibetan uprising "Tibet: China's policy paper on Tibet". Information Office of the State Council of the People's Republic of China. May 2004 - "[I]n face of the ever-growing demand of the people for democratic reform [in accordance with the Seven Point Agreement], some people in the upper ruling strata of Tibet, in order to preserve feudal serfdom, and supported by imperialist forces, staged an armed rebellion all along the line on March 10, 1959, in an attempt to separate Tibet from China. On March 28 of the same year, the State Council announced the dismissal of the original local government of Tibet, and empowered the Preparatory Committee for the Tibet Autonomous Region to exercise the functions and powers of the local government of Tibet, with the 10th Panchen Lama as its acting chairman. The Central People's Government and the Preparatory Committee for the Tibet Autonomous Region led the Tibetan people in quickly quelling the rebellion, implemented the Democratic Reform, overthrew the feudal serfdom under theocracy, and abolished the feudal hierarchic system, the relations of personal dependence, and all savage punishments. As a result, a million serfs and slaves were emancipated, and became masters of the country as well as of the region of Tibet, acquired the citizens' rights and freedom specified in the Constitution and law, and swept away the obstacles, in respect of social system, to the exercise of regional ethnic autonomy."
headline_12	Diplomatic recognition: Has Tibet been recognized diplomatically by other countries?
pro_12_1	Tibet recognized at Geneva conventions after WWII	 Tibet recognized at Geneva conventions after WWII Michael C. van Walt, an international legal scholar and a board member of the International Campaign for Tibet. "Tibet File No.18: The Legal Status of Tibet". Cultural Survival Quarterly (Vol. 12, 1988) - "It should be noted that numerous countries made statements in the course of UN General Assembly debates following the invasion of Tibet that reflected their recognition of Tibet's independent status. Thus, for example, the delegate from the Philippines declared: 'It is not clear that on the eve of the invasion [in] 1950, Tibet was not under the rule of any foreign country.' The delegate from Thailand reminded the assembly that the majority of states 'refute the contention that Tibet is a part of China.' The US joined most other UN members in condemning the Chinese 'aggression' and 'invasion' of Tibet.'"
con_12_1	No government has ever recognized Tibet as independent	 No government has ever recognized Tibet as independent "China, Tibet and Chinese nation. Facts and Figures on Tibet in 1999". The Statistics Bureau of Tibet, 1999. - "China's sovereignty on Tibet for over 700 years
headline_13	Distinct identity: Does Tibet have a distinct national identity?
pro_13_1	Tibetans have a distinct national culture	Tibetans have a distinct national culture
pro_13_2	The Tibetan language is related to the Chinese Language, but is clearly distinct, as seen when it is compared to Mandarin, Cantonese, and the other Chinese dialects/languages	The Tibetan language is related to the Chinese Language, but is clearly distinct, as seen when it is compared to Mandarin, Cantonese, and the other Chinese dialects/languages Wikipedia: Tibetan language
pro_13_3	Tibet has its own national flag and anthem.	Tibet has its own national flag and anthem.
pro_13_4	Tibet has an ethnically distinct people.	Tibet has an ethnically distinct people.
pro_13_5	Tibet is geographically distinct from China.	Tibet is geographically distinct from China.
pro_13_6	Tibet has its own currency	Tibet has its own currency
con_13_1	In a multicultural society, Tibet's uniqueness does not warrant independence	 In a multicultural society, Tibet's uniqueness does not warrant independence China has many different groups with many different historical, cultural, geographic, and linguistic characteristics. Tibet is only one of those groups. Why should this warrant that it become independent? In modern multicultural societies, differences should be rejoiced, rather than exploited to divide a country.
con_13_2	Tibetans should not accentuate differences and create prejudices pursuing independence.	Tibetans should not accentuate differences and create prejudices pursuing independence. Even if Tibet has certain unique distinctions over most of these other minority groups, it is unclear why this should warrant their independence. If we offer independence to Tibet on the basis of these distinctions, aren't we inflating the importance of differences in the world. Isn't this contrary to the principles of tolerance, multiculturalism, and compassion espoused throughout the moder world and, particularly, by the Dalai Lama. If compassion is central to Buddhist philosophies, shouldn't these differences be minimized? Indeed, Tibet's pursuit of independence has inflamed pro-Tibet/anti-Chinese and pro-China/anti-Tibet feelings and voices across the world. The pursuit of independence creates destructive battle lines and lasting prejudices in this way.
headline_14	Self-determination: Does Tibet have the right to self-determination?
pro_14_1	Tibetans have the right to self-determination, and the right to choose independence.	Tibetans have the right to self-determination, and the right to choose independence. The right to self-determination is universally held, and protected under international law. It is a function of democracy that people must consent to be governed by a country and its government. If they do not consent, then that government lacks political legitimacy over them and ceases to be capable of functioning properly in protecting the interests of those people. It is at this time that a right to self-determination can be excercised. It would appear that Tibet has been at that stage for some time.
pro_14_2	The majority of Tibetans desire independence.	The majority of Tibetans desire independence. The majority of Tibetans believe the Chinese government is depriving them of essential freedoms, and would vote for independence if it was put to a referendum.
pro_14_3	The principles of Tibet independence should be considered outside of the context of other separatist movements.	The principles of Tibet independence should be considered outside of the context of other separatist movements. One main argument against Tibetan independence is that it risks encouraging other separatist movements, be they in Taiwan, Chechnya, Kosovo, or elsewhere. Each separatist movement, however, needs to be considered on their own merits. It is unjust to hold a people hostage to the international political climate. Principles and the merits for Tibet independence must stand above this all.
pro_14_4	The Tibetan case for independence is analogous to US rationales for independence in 1776.	The Tibetan case for independence is analogous to US rationales for independence in 1776. It is important to put Tibet's struggle for independence in historical perspective in this way. Few doubt the righteousness of the United States' declaration of independence in 1776 and its revolution against the British. But, it was not given permission to do this. Rather, it just did it. Similarly, Tibet's case is not one in which the right to self-determination is granted. It is, rather, a matter of Tibet seizing its right to determine its future (self-determination). This can only be driven by an internal will among Tibetans to obtain freedom where their own consciences tell them there is none; it cannot and will not be driven by an external offering of a right to self-determination. That right exists within. That's why it is called "self-determination".
pro_14_5	Tibet's case for independence is equally justified as Kosovo's case	 Tibet's case for independence is equally justified as Kosovo's case On February 18th, 2008, Kosovo declared itself independent from Serbia. It has gained recognition on the international stage as a legitimate, independent state. Tibet has an analogous set of circumstances.
con_14_1	The average Tibetan does not actually want independence from China	 The average Tibetan does not actually want independence from China Certainly, many Tibetans want independence and are protesting in favor of it. The Tibetan exile population is particularly vocal in this regard. But this should not be confused to mean that a majority of Tibetans want independence. Most Tibetans are more conservative and practical, and simply want greater freedoms within China. This is reflected in the views of the Dalai Lama, who seeks only greater freedoms and autonomy, but not dependence.
con_14_2	The Chinese government has a right to protect the unity of China against Tibetan separatism.	The Chinese government has a right to protect the unity of China against Tibetan separatism. US President Abraham Lincoln, in justifying efforts to maintain the union in the face of an imminent civil war, said in 1858, "A house divided cannot stand". Unity was argued to be essential to the integrity and future of the union. China can put forth the same rationale for forcing Tibet to remain part of China. If Tibet were to achieve independence, both China and Tibet would be weaker, with less geopolitical strength and with greater tensions and opportunities for conflict.
con_14_3	China already offers Tibet a right to self-determination with a level of autonomy.	China already offers Tibet a right to self-determination with a level of autonomy. Self-determination does not mean "independence", outright. It can, rather, provide a people in a certain region with a right to govern themselves on some autonomous level within a larger state. In this way, China can already be seen as offering self-determination to Tibetans through the autonomy it affords them.
con_14_4	The right to self-determination must be offered sparingly to avoid international instability.	The right to self-determination must be offered sparingly to avoid international instability. Any right to self-determination cannot be offered liberally in the international system. It must be offered extremely conservatively, and it must be known that the criteria are highly, highly selective. If the criteria are not conservatively applied in Tibet's case, than literally dozens of break-away regions around the world will seek independence, destabilizing the international system. This is one of the reasons why self-determination should really only be offered for especially grievous circumstances.
con_14_5	A right to self-determination should only be offered for especially grievous circumstances, which does not include Tibet.	A right to self-determination should only be offered for especially grievous circumstances, which does not include Tibet. While Tibet may have good reasons to complain about its circumstances under China, its circumstances are not that bad. Bad would be the mass genocide and murder of Tibetans. There are relatively few deaths in Tibets case on account of the Chinese government's police presence there. The main concerns are that many Tibetans have been imprisoned, they are subject to some human rights abuses, they are deprived of their leader the Dalai Lama. These may be bad problems, but they are not egregious in the grand global perspective of genocides and mass murders that are occurring. Given the international communities' limited ability to respond to international grievances, the Tibetan case simply does not qualify for immediate attention.
con_14_6	Tibetan exiles forgo any right to self-determination by acting violently and repressively	 Tibetan exiles forgo any right to self-determination by acting violently and repressively Self-determination is a right as well as a privilege. It should not be granted to those that have violated ethical and human rights standards. There are reasons to believe that Tibetan protesters have failed to abide by these ethical standards, acting violently and, allegedly killing some Chinese residents in Tibet. They should not be rewarded with a right to self-determination.
con_14_7	There is no international consensus on the rights of nationalities to self determination	There is no international consensus on the rights of nationalities to self determination.
headline_15	Chinese governance: Has China failed to govern in Tibet's interests (minus human rights)?
pro_15_1	China's invasion of Tibet invalidates its right to govern it	 China's invasion of Tibet invalidates its right to govern it Daniel Smith. "Self-Determination in Tibet. The Politics of Remedies". 1997 - "whenever it is determined that genocide has been perpetrated against a people, there should be a concomitant right to secession exercisable at its option. The reasoning is simple: no aggressor committing genocide against a people can be entrusted with that people's welfare into the future. Such an aggressor ceases to possess any credibility in dealing with an oppressed people. If a people oppressed by genocide were not guaranteed the right to secede, this would be tantamount to rewarding the oppressor to the very extent it had succeeded in committing genocide--a morally perverse and illogical result. [88] Genocide, the worst of transgressions in international law, must be accorded a remedy, and that remedy should be the fullest expression of self-determination--complete autonomy as manifested in independence. Invoking such a right in the case of the Tibetans, who have been documented as being the victims of genocide and other human rights violations, would make their claim to independence absolutely compelling, legally as well as morally."
pro_15_2	The Chinese government is not working toward solutions for Tibet	 The Chinese government is not working toward solutions for Tibet "Proving Truth from Facts". Released by the Tibetan Government-in-Exile on 7 July 1993 partly in response to China's white paper.[2] - "Quest for Solution
con_15_1	China focuses great attention on developing Tibet	 China focuses great attention on developing Tibet "Chinese gov't continues favorable policy in Tibet". Embassy of the People's Republic of China in the United States. (11/27/06) - "The Chinese central government always attaches great importance to the work in Tibet, having held four working conferences on Tibet since the start of reform and opening-up policy at the end of 1970s, and formulated a series of favorable and supportive policies to accelerate the economic development there and maintain stability."
con_15_2	China liberated Tibet, moving it from backwardness to modernization	 China liberated Tibet, moving it from backwardness to modernization
con_15_3	Tibet enjoys sufficient autonomy within China	 Tibet enjoys sufficient autonomy within China
con_15_4	By liberating Tibet, China safeguarded its sovereign and territorial integrity.	By liberating Tibet, China safeguarded its sovereign and territorial integrity. With rampant Western imperialism following the end of WWII, protecting Tibet from such imperialism was very important. China's liberation of the country was designed to achieve these ends.
con_15_5	China has ensured equality and unity of ethnic groups in Tibet.	China has ensured equality and unity of ethnic groups in Tibet.
con_15_6	Chinese policies have been ethnically reconciliatory	 Chinese policies have been ethnically reconciliatory There have been instances where Chinese authorities have pursued engagement policies with Tibet on a political and economic level.This disproves the common belief that China has had a history of abuses towards Tibet.
con_15_7	The Chinese authorities have had numerous proactive measure to reach out to Tibet	The Chinese authorities have had numerous proactive measure to reach out to Tibet Economic  and legal benefits have been granted to Tibetans in an effort of the Chinese authorities to spur development of teh area and increase the welfare of Tibetans.
con_15_8	Tibetan's independence protests have determined the Chinese to change their approach	Tibetan's independence protests have determined the Chinese to change their approach The change in the policies that Chinese authorities have pursued towards Tibet has been determined by  pro-independence protests. It has determined the authorities to take a hard lien stance towards Tibet contrary to its previous policies.
con_15_9	China has not swamped Tibetans with Han Chinese immigrants	China has not swamped Tibetans with Han Chinese immigrants Pro-Tibetans often cite the rise in Tibet's population after 1950 as a result of a Chinese policy to swamp Tibetans with Han Chinese immigrants. But, there is a different explanation for these numbers. The population of Tibet in 1737 was about 8 million, and that due to the backward rule of the local theocracy, there was rapid decrease in the next two hundred years and the population in 1959 was only about 1.19 million. Today, the population of Greater Tibet is 7.3 million, of which 5 million is ethnic Tibetan, according to the 2000 census. The increase is viewed as the result of the abolishment of the theocracy and introduction of a modern, higher standard of living. In addition, the PRC says that the border for Greater Tibet drawn by the government of Tibet in Exile is so large that it incorporates regions such as Xining that are not traditionally Tibetan in the first place, hence exaggerating the number of non-Tibetans.
headline_16	Military presence: Has China abusively militarized Tibet?
pro_16_1	Military of Tibet oppresses Tibetans	 Military of Tibet oppresses Tibetans "Proving Truth from Facts". Released by the Tibetan Government-in-Exile on 7 July 1993 partly in response to China's white paper. - "Chinese control in Tibet has been and continues to be maintained by a large military force. The number of PLA troopsand other security forces varies, but in the entire area of Tibet there are, at any rate, several hundred thousand well-armed and -equipped men. Lhasa is virtually surrounded by military camps and the inner city has a heavy presence of special armed police and undercover security personnel. In the north of Tibet, China has nuclear installations and testing grounds. China's Ninth Academy, located in Dhashu (Haiyan) in the northeastern Tibetan province of Amdo, remains today an important and high security military weapons plant. The militarisation of Tibet not only represents an oppressive burden on Tibetans and a source of fear and terror, it is also a source of instability and potential conflict in the region."
con_16_1	China's military is in Tibet due to the separatist threat there.	China's military is in Tibet due to the separatist threat there. China's military presence in Tibet is a justified response to a serious separatist threat both inside of Tibet and from the Tibetan Government in Exile in India. This is a serious threat to the integrity and unity of China, and the government has the right to take heavy-handed action against it. If Tibetans renounced their rebellious separatism, the military presence would be unnecessary. Maybe this should be the focus for change in Tibet, instead of independence. If Tibetans became less inclined to seek independence, much of the conditions that cause them to seek independence - like a military presence - would be ended.
headline_17	Political rights: Have Tibetans received insufficient political rights under China?
pro_17_1	China is a communist nation, so inherently suppresses Tibetan rights.	China is a communist nation, so inherently suppresses Tibetan rights. It should not be ignored that China is a communist nation. It is mostly un-democratic, deprives individuals of individuals rights (inherently), suppressing dissent, and generally acts to maintain central control. There are few democratic or other means to express grievances. For the Tibetans, a minority at the fringe of China's attention, this is a dangerous situation. Independence would lead to a much more representative and secure Tibetan government who would secure the individual rights and interests of Tibetans.
pro_17_2	China continues to arrest and hold Tibetan political prisoners	 China continues to arrest and hold Tibetan political prisoners International Campaign for Tibet. "Political Prisoners". Retrieved April 20th, 2008 - "The use of detention, arrest and imprisonment of large numbers of Tibetans continues to be an integral part of China's effort to suppress opposition to Chinese rule in Tibet. Tibetan political prisoners endure harsh prison conditions, including torture, deprivation of food and sleep, and long periods in isolation cells[...] Reasons for arrest can include printing political leaflets, shouting reactionary slogans, encouraging reactionary singing, hoisting or possessing the Tibetan flag, participating in demonstrations and/or showing allegiance to the Dalai Lama."
pro_17_3	China is engaging in torture in Tibet	 China is engaging in torture in Tibet International Campaign for Tibet. "End Torture in Tibet". Retrieved April 20th, 2008 - "In November 2005 the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Torture, Dr Manfred Nowak, visited China and Tibet. This is the first time the SR on Torture has been able to visit China and Tibet, after successive efforts failed due to Chinese opposition[...]The People's Republic of China ratified the UN Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment (CAT) in October 1988 and outlawed certain forms of torture in 1997. Nonetheless, today torture continues to be used extensively in Tibet's network of prisons and labor camps with the full knowledge of the PRC's leadership."
pro_17_4	The Chinese government has restricted media access in Tibet.	The Chinese government has restricted media access in Tibet. During the 2008 unrest in Tibet, Chinese authorities restricted the ability of foreign and Hong Kong media to enter and freely report on the region, with the exception of James Miles, a correspondent from The Economist, who gained approval for a week-long trip which happened to coincide with the increase in tensions. On March 27, following a promise by premier Wen Jiabao to allow the media back in as soon as practicable, the Chinese authorities organised a controlled tour of Lhasa by foreign media. Chinese authorities have also reportedly attempted to block access to several major internet media outlets by Chinese citizens during the turmoil. All of this indicates a serious flaw in Chinese governance of Tibet, and delegitimizes its control of the region.
pro_17_5	China suppresses all political protest in Tibet	 China suppresses all political protest in Tibet China brutally suppresses Tibetan protests on the grounds that they are crimes of counter-revolution. China applies its definition of crimes of counter-revolution very loosely so as to suppress any Tibetan political protest it wishes.
pro_17_6	China has not opened sufficient negotiations with Tibetans	 China has not opened sufficient negotiations with Tibetans
con_17_1	China has given Tibet autonomy and democratic representation	China has given Tibet autonomy and democratic representation "Tibet: China's policy paper on Tibet". Information Office of the State Council of the People's Republic of China. May 2004 - "V. Regional Ethnic Autonomy Is the Fundamental Guarantee for Tibetan People As Masters of Their Own Affairs
con_17_2	China liberated Tibet in 1950 from a feudal, aristocracy.	China liberated Tibet in 1950 from a feudal, aristocracy. "Tibet: Its Ownership and Human Rights Situation," also known as the "China White Paper". Issued by Information Office of the State Council of the People's Republic of China in September 1992. (The definitive Chinese Government line on Tibet) - The People Gain Personal Freedom
headline_18	Religious freedoms: Would Tibetan independence improve the religious freedoms?
pro_18_1	China is depriving Tibetans of their religious freedoms	 China is depriving Tibetans of their religious freedoms
pro_18_2	China has no right to keep Tibet while depriving it of its natural leader, the Dalai Lama	China has no right to keep Tibet while depriving it of its natural leader, the Dalai Lama The Dalai Lama is the spiritual figure-head and historical leader of the Tibetan people. And, yet, he is forbidden by the Chinese government from returning to Tibet. China has no right to deprive Tibet of its leader. This is, in fact, a supression of Tibetan spiritual freedom, as well as its freedom to democratically elect its leader in the currently "autonomous" Tibetan region. If China is unwilling to allow the Dali Lama to lead in the country, than it must allow Tibet to gain independence.
pro_18_3	China has no right to select the next Dalai Lama	China has no right to select the next Dalai Lama
con_18_1	China fully protects the religious rights of Tibetans	 China fully protects the religious rights of Tibetans "Tibet: Its Ownership and Human Rights Situation," also known as the "China White Paper". Issued by Information Office of the State Council of the People's Republic of China in September 1992. (The definitive Chinese Government line on Tibet) - Freedom of Religious Belief
headline_19	Education: Has China failed to uphold Tibetan education?
pro_19_1	China has not invested well in Tibetan education	China has not invested well in Tibetan education "Proving Truth from Facts". Released by the Tibetan Government-in-Exile on 7 July 1993 partly in response to China's white paper. - "Socio-economic Conditions
pro_19_2	The Tibetan population is still among the poorest in the world, the literacy rate of Tibetans in Tibet (as opposed to those in exile) is shockingly low	The Tibetan population is still among the poorest in the world, the literacy rate of Tibetans in Tibet (as opposed to those in exile) is shockingly low, unemployment among Tibetans (as opposed to Chinese settlers) in Tibet is growing fast, and in all walks of life, Tibetans are subjected to discrimination."
pro_19_3	Tibetan students are forced to use Chinese as the official language	 Tibetan students are forced to use Chinese as the official language
pro_19_4	Tibetan students are being taught false history	 Tibetan students are being taught false history
pro_19_5	Tibetan students can't discuss Tibetan social issues	 Tibetan students can't discuss Tibetan social issues
con_19_1	China upholds the use of the Tibetan language in school	 China upholds the use of the Tibetan language in school
con_19_2	China substantially improved Tibet's educational system.	China substantially improved Tibet's educational system. A secular education in the region was created after integration into the PRC; there are 25 scientific research institutes, all built by the PRC.
headline_20	Culture: Has China failed to uphold Tibetan education?
pro_20_1	Money funneled into cultural restoration projects is aimed only at attracting foreign tourists.	Money funneled into cultural restoration projects is aimed only at attracting foreign tourists.
pro_20_2	Tibetan students are forced to use Chinese as the official language	 Tibetan students are forced to use Chinese as the official language  February 2008 Norman Baker UK MP, released a statement to mark International Mother Language Day saying - "The Chinese government are following a deliberate policy of extinguishing all that is Tibetan, including their own language in their own country. It may be obvious, but Tibetan should be the official language of Tibet. The world must act. Time is running out for Tibet." The rights of Tibetans, under Article 5 of the Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity are to "express themselves and to create and disseminate their work in the language of their choice, and particularly in their mother tongue", as well as being "entitled to quality education and training that fully respect their cultural identity". Whilst playing lip service to protecting the Tibetan language, the Chinese government seems intent on subverting and eventually eliminating the use of the Tibetan mother tongue. The Chinese authorities occupying Tibet are making life impossible for Tibetans who are not fluent in Mandarin Chinese by passing laws to minimise teaching of Tibetan in schools and by replacing Tibetan language with Chinese language in many spheres of public life.[3]
pro_20_3	Tibetan students are being taught false history	 Tibetan students are being taught false history The culture of a people is preserved in large part through the transmission of its history through each successive generation. But, if that culture is muffled, altered, and even completely false, what do you do? This is what is happening in Tibet.
con_20_1	Protecting Tibetan culture by opposing modernization is wrongheaded.	Protecting Tibetan culture by opposing modernization is wrongheaded. "The problem with Tibet". The Guardian. March 6th, 2008 - "there is the desire to save Tibet from anything that looks or smells modern: from Chinese jobs, industry, railways. Apparently such things are a threat to Tibetans' "way of life", which is honourably simple, rustic and rural. This paternalistic defence of "natural" and childlike Tibet from rampant, industrious China is perfectly captured in a Free Tibet poster."
con_20_2	China actively upholds Tibetan culture	China actively upholds Tibetan culture Allocation of 300 million Renminbi since the 1980s to the maintenance and protection of Tibetan monasteries[6].
con_20_3	The Cultural Revolution's cultural damage has been condemned by China in Tibet as in the rest of China.	The Cultural Revolution's cultural damage has been condemned by China in Tibet as in the rest of China. The damage it wrought upon the entire PRC is generally condemned as a nationwide catastrophe, whose main instigators (in the PRC's view, the Gang of Four) have been brought to justice and whose reoccurrence is unthinkable in an increasingly modernized China.
con_20_4	China has adopted several policies aimed at honoring and protecting the traditional culture of Tibet	China has adopted several policies aimed at honoring and protecting the traditional culture of Tibet"Tibet: Its Ownership and Human Rights Situation," also known as the "China White Paper". Issued by Information Office of the State Council of the People's Republic of China in September 1992. (The definitive Chinese Government line on Tibet) - "Tibet has a rich traditional culture which covers language, literature, art, philosophy, religion, medicine and the celestial almanac. The Chinese Government has always attached importance to protecting and developing the excellent traditional culture of the Tibetan ethnic group. It has adopted a series of policies and measures to honour, protect and ensure the flourishing of Tibet's traditional culture, enabling the legacy of Tibetan culture to be inherited and developed.
headline_21	Economics: Has China failed to adequately govern Tibet's economic development?
pro_21_1	Han Chinese are given preferential treatment in Tibet's labor market.	Han Chinese are given preferential treatment in Tibet's labor market.
pro_21_2	Tibet independence will ensure that Tibetans fairly benefit from economic gains	 Tibet independence will ensure that Tibetans fairly benefit from economic gains Tibet has not been given a fair share of its own economic gains? Chinese, government-owned companies have reaped most of the profit from Tibet.
pro_21_3	China's development aid to Tibet only consolidates its control	 China's development aid to Tibet only consolidates its control Economic development projects, such as the China Western Development economic plan, or the Qinghai-Tibet Railway, are politically-motivated actions to consolidate central control over Tibet by facilitating militarization and Han Chinese migration while benefiting few Tibetans. Even the programs that are ostensibly beneficial to Tibetan development have the effect of increasing Tibetan dependence on China and China's grip on the future of Tibet.
pro_21_4	China's development aid undermines Tibetan culture and identity	 China's development aid undermines Tibetan culture and identity
pro_21_5	With Chinese as the official language, Tibetans can't get state jobs	 With Chinese as the official language, Tibetans can't get state jobs
pro_21_6	China is exploiting and looting Tibet's natural resources	 China is exploiting and looting Tibet's natural resources
con_21_1	Protecting Tibetan culture by opposing modernization is wrongheaded.	Protecting Tibetan culture by opposing modernization is wrongheaded. "The problem with Tibet". The Guardian. March 6th, 2008 - "there is the desire to save Tibet from anything that looks or smells modern: from Chinese jobs, industry, railways. Apparently such things are a threat to Tibetans' "way of life", which is honourably simple, rustic and rural. This paternalistic defence of "natural" and childlike Tibet from rampant, industrious China is perfectly captured in a Free Tibet poster."
con_21_2	China has turned around Tibet's formerly backwards economic system	 China has turned around Tibet's formerly backwards economic system
con_21_3	China cannot be expected to have already fixed Tibet	 China cannot be expected to have already fixed Tibet China has done the best it could with Tibet's backwards economic, political system. While Tibet continues to have economic problems, this is not surprising. In 1950, Tibet was a backward, Third World country. China has modernized Tibet substantially from this terribly primitive starting point. That problems persist in Tibet is no surprise. These problems are largely a result of Tibet's primitive beginnings when China took over the country in 1950. Tibet still has a long way to go, and China will continue to push it in the right direction. But, China should not be blamed for having not quite yet completing the project.
con_21_4	China continues to improve on its failures.	China continues to improve on its failures. China has failed in some ways for sure. Every government fails on some level. But, China is actively improving its approach to the modernization of Tibet's economy. It will continue to improve and so will Tibet's economic prospects.
con_21_5	China's economic modernization of Tibet has improved living standards	 China's economic modernization of Tibet has improved living standards The lives of Tibetans have been improved immensely compared to the Dalai Lama's rule before 1950. Benefits that are commonly quoted include: the GDP of Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) today is 30 times that before 1950; it has 22,500 km of highways, all built since 1950; infant mortality has dropped from 43% in 1950 to 0.661% in 2000; life expectancy has risen from 35.5 years in 1950 to 67 in 2000; the collection and publishing of the traditional Epic of King Gesar, which is the longest epic poem in the world and had only been handed down orally before; The China Western Development plan is viewed by the PRC as a massive, benevolent, and patriotic undertaking by the eastern coast to help the western parts of China, including Tibet, catch up in prosperity and living standards.
con_21_6	China is providing enhanced subsidies and assistance to Tibet	 China is providing enhanced subsidies and assistance to Tibet Tibet receives special attention, care, and economic aid from the Chinese government. The numbers themselves demonstrate that China cares deeply about helping Tibet modernize, and break through the legacy of its feudal past.
con_21_7	China is justified in seeking to modernize and assimilate Tibet	China is justified in seeking to modernize and assimilate Tibet
con_21_8	Tibet is economically disadvantaged due to its altitude problems	 Tibet is economically disadvantaged due to its altitude problems
headline_22	Environment: Has the Chinese government failed to uphold Tibet's environment?
pro_22_1	China's militarization of Tibet is damaging its environment	 China's militarization of Tibet is damaging its environment "Proving Truth from Facts". Released by the Tibetan Government-in-Exile on 7 July 1993 partly in response to China's white paper.[4] - "Environment
pro_22_2	China's occupation of Tibet has led to massive deforestation	 China's occupation of Tibet has led to massive deforestation
con_22_1	China prioritizes and actively protects Tibet's environment	China prioritizes and actively protects Tibet's environment "Tibet: Its Ownership and Human Rights Situation," also known as the "China White Paper". Issued by Information Office of the State Council of the People's Republic of China in September 1992. (The definitive Chinese Government line on Tibet) - Protection of Living Environment
headline_23	Demographics: Has China failed to uphold Tibet's demographic interests?
pro_23_1	Chinese expansion in Tibet is a real threat to the Tibetans	Chinese expansion in Tibet is a real threat to the Tibetans China has adopted an aggressive demographic policy in Tibet, moving Chinese into the region, with the implicit objective of making it more difficult for Tibet to declare and achieve independence. This settlement is invasive to Tibetan culture and livelihood and demonstrates that China is acting oppressively in its sovereign governance of Tibet. This helps warrant independence.
headline_24	Tibetan governance: Do Tibetans have a history of good self-governance?
pro_24_1	Tibet's traditional government was good and improving	Tibet's traditional government was good and improving"Proving Truth from Facts". Released by the Tibetan Government-in-Exile on 7 July 1993 partly in response to China's white paper. - Traditional Society and Democratic Framework for Future Tibet
pro_24_2	The Tibetan Government in Exile has strong democratic designs for Tibet	The Tibetan Government in Exile has strong democratic designs for Tibet. "Proving Truth from Facts". Released by the Tibetan Government-in-Exile on 7 July 1993 partly in response to China's white paper. - "Soon after his arrival in India, the Dalai Lama set up the Government-in-Exile and a series of democratic changes was initiated. A popularly elected body of people's representatives, known as the Assembly of Tibetan People¹s Deputies,was constituted and a draft constitution for the future Tibet promulgated. The constitution contained a clause whereby the executive powers of the Dalai Lama could be curtailed by a majority of two-thirds of the total members of the National Assembly.
con_24_1	The Central Tibetan Administration has no moral legitimacy to govern Tibet.	The Central Tibetan Administration has no moral legitimacy to govern Tibet.
con_24_2	The Central Tibetan Administration renounced Arunachal Pradesh, damaging its moral legitimacy to govern.	The Central Tibetan Administration renounced Arunachal Pradesh, damaging its moral legitimacy to govern. The Arunachal Pradesh is claimed by China as a part of Tibet occupied by India.
con_24_3	The CTA's association with India undermines its legitimacy as the government of Tibet.	The CTA's association with India undermines its legitimacy as the government of Tibet.
headline_25	2008 unrest: Does the 2008 unrest in Tibet strengthen the case for independence?
con_25_1	2008 Tibetan rioters attacked Han Chinese individuals and their property	2008 Tibetan rioters attacked Han Chinese individuals and their property Han Chinese are the predominant ethnic group in China, and Hui, who are a Muslim minority. According to the BBC and the Wall Street Journal, rioters focused on setting fire to and looting businesses owned by them. James Miles, in an interview with CNN, made the following assessment, "What I saw was calculated targeted violence against an ethnic group, or I should say two ethnic groups, primarily ethnic Han Chinese living in Lhasa, but also members of the Muslim Hui minority in Lhasa." According to The Economist, "The mobs, ranging from small groups of youths (some armed with traditional Tibetan swords) to crowds of many dozens, including women and children, rampaged through the narrow alleys of the Tibetan quarter. They battered the shutters of shops, broke in and seized whatever they could, from hunks of meat to gas canisters and clothing. Some goods they carried away, while other goods were thrown into large fires lit on the street." First, this demonstrates that the Tibetans are culpable for human rights abuses, which delegitimizes claims they make against China in this regard. While China may be violating certain human rights standards, it is not clear that Tibetans would do any better if they had their own independent nation.
headline_26	Human rights: Has China abused Tibet on human rights fronts? What about Tibet's abuses?
pro_26_1	China has a long history of human rights abuses in Tibet	 China has a long history of human rights abuses in Tibet
pro_26_2	The Chinese government has been abusive in policing Tibet	The Chinese government has been abusive in policing Tibet Amanda Bower. "Dalai Lama: Tibet Wants Autonomy, Not Independence". Time. April 16th, 2006 - "the present situation, in reality, I think that 99% of the Tibetan population is very, very unhappy. Every year, I think more than 10,000 Tibetans come to India. Some escape, some with permission. Every single Tibetan, when you meet them, is crying, complaining, including some Tibetans who have high level positions and are party members. I think many foreigners who visit Tibet and who have some close contact with local Tibetans also get the same impression. There are a large number of police forces there. Why? Too much suspicion, too much fear. If what the Chinese government claims is true, there's no need for security like that. This is very bad, not only bad for Tibetans, but also for the People's Republic of China as a whole."
pro_26_3	Tibetans cannot live freely under Chinese rule	Tibetans cannot live freely under Chinese rule
pro_26_4	China unjustly and brutally expelled Tibetan officials when it invaded	China unjustly and brutally expelled Tibetan officials when it invaded China has performed many human rights abuses against Tibet and does not deserve to be in control of the country. Chinese rule is effecting Tibetans negatively and human rights abuses are a main reason why Tibet should be free and not under China's rule.
pro_26_5	China not only attacks Tibet, it also attacks people who diagree with Chinese policy.	China not only attacks Tibet, it also attacks people who diagree with Chinese policy. China has got a reputation on doing bad things to people who disagree with their policies, whether they are Chinese or not. This news article is an example:News: Tibetans wounded as Chinese Police fire on pilgrim protests
con_26_1	Tibetans enjoy better human rights standards today then ever before	Tibetans enjoy better human rights standards today then ever before
con_26_2	Tibet has violated human rights, so may abuses by China shouldn't be held to a double standard.	Tibet has violated human rights, so may abuses by China shouldn't be held to a double standard. Tibetan authority under successive Dalai Lamas was itself a human rights violator while the old society was basically a serfdom and, according to foreigners who witnessed it, slaves even existed [28][20].PRC argues that the Tibetan authority under successive Dalai Lamas was itself a human rights violator while the old society was basically a serfdom and, according to foreigners who witnessed it, slaves even existed [28][20].
con_26_3	Tibetan separatists have protested violently and unethically	Tibetan separatists have protested violently and unethically
con_26_4	Old Tibet has a long history of persecuting un-Buddhist Christians	 Old Tibet has a long history of persecuting un-Buddhist Christians
headline_27	Statehood: Has Tibet demonstrated a capacity to govern itself successfully as a state?
pro_27_1	Tibet has operated largely autonomously under Chinese rule.	Tibet has operated largely autonomously under Chinese rule.
pro_27_2	The International Commission of Jurists concluded that Tibet in 1913-50 demonstrated the conditions of statehood as generally accepted under international law.	The International Commission of Jurists concluded that Tibet in 1913-50 demonstrated the conditions of statehood as generally accepted under international law. In the opinion of the commission, the government of Tibet conducted its own domestic and foreign affairs free from any outside authority, and countries with whom Tibet had foreign relations are shown by official documents to have treated Tibet in practice as an independent State.
pro_27_3	Foreign powers have diplomatically treated Tibet as an independent state.	Foreign powers have diplomatically treated Tibet as an independent state. Foreign diplomatic recognition is an important sign that Tibet has had a contiguous form of diplomacy and goverance in place for a long
pro_27_4	China has ensured that Tibet's economic progress mainly benefits China	 China has ensured that Tibet's economic progress mainly benefits China Chinese companies are investing in Tibet, but these Chinese owners are the primary beneficiaries of these investments. In addition, there is evidence that Chinese employees are given preference over Tibetans in
pro_27_5	Independence would allow Tibet to tailor its economic policies to its particular economy	 Independence would allow Tibet to tailor its economic policies to its particular economy Tibet is less developed than China and is less export driven. China's monetary and economic policies do not really conform to Tibet's circumstances. Independence would allow Tibet to better tailor economic policies to its particular needs.
pro_27_6	Economic independence from China will prevent economic corruption	 Economic independence from China will prevent economic corruption China's economic system is fairly corrupt, particularly in the way that it relates to the communist party. Tibet independence will ensure against that this corrupt economic system does not infect the Tibetan economic model.
con_27_1	Tibet will modernize only if it remains part of China	Tibet will modernize only if it remains part of China The Dalai Lama, in an interview with Time Magazine. April 16th, 2006 - "As far as the future is concerned, look at the European Union. In the past centuries, those nations talked most about their sovereignty. Now, today, the common interest is more important than each individual nation's sovereignty. Tibet is a landlocked country, a large area, small population, very, very backward. We Tibetans want modernization. Therefore, in order to develop Tibet materially as a modern nation, Tibet must remain within the People's Republic of China. Provided Chinese give us a full guarantee of preservation of Tibetan culture, Tibetan environment, Tibetan spirituality, then it is of mutual benefit. [Besides] foreign affairs [and] defense [are] all the things which Tibetans can manage by themselves. Tibetans should have the full autonomy."
con_27_2	An independent Tibet would bring to power a repressive Buddhist theocracy	An independent Tibet would bring to power a repressive Buddhist theocracy The Tibetologist Robert Barnett wrote about the violent tendencies of powerful monks against the introduction of anything un-Buddhist that might diminish their hold to power: "The clergy who destroyed the attempts of the Tibetan government and the previous Dalai Lama to enlarge and modernize the Tibetan army in the 1920s...were not motivated in the slightest by objections to violence, but by the fear that modernization might, by increasing links with the un-Buddhist British, lead to the diminution of the monasteries' power; indeed there were several insurgencies against the previous Dalai Lama or his regents this century led by monks in defense of that belief."
con_27_3	No country publicly recognizes Tibet as an independent state.	No country publicly recognizes Tibet as an independent state. For its part, the Government of the United States has borne in mind the fact that...the Chinese constitution lists Tibet among areas constituting the territory of the Republic of China. This Government has at no time raised a question regarding either of these claims.
con_27_4	Tibetans lack a unified voice and leadership structure	 Tibetans lack a unified voice and leadership structure That the Dalai Lama calls for autonomy and rejects independence, while other Tibetans call for independence provides a glimpse of the problem. There is no clear leadership in Tibet that can be said to represent the Tibetan people.
headline_28	Chinese interests: Should Tibet become independent?
pro_28_1	By depriving Tibet of independence, China damages its own image	  By depriving Tibet of independence, China damages its own image
pro_28_2	Tibetan independence would relieve the strain it places on China.	Tibetan independence would relieve the strain it places on China.
con_28_1	Independence for Tibet would almost certain lead Taiwanese to press for independence.	Independence for Tibet would almost certain lead Taiwanese to press for independence.
con_28_2	China's population strongly opposes Tibet independence.	China's population strongly opposes Tibet independence. Fareed Zakaria. "Our Tibet Protests Won't Work". Washington Post.com. April 15th, 2008 - "[...]on this issue, the communist regime is not in opposition to its people. The vast majority of Chinese have little sympathy for the Tibetan cause. To the extent that we can gauge public opinion in China and among its diaspora, ordinary Chinese are, if anything, critical of the Beijing government for being too easy on the Tibetans. The real struggle here is between a nationalist majority and an ethnic and religious minority looking to secure its rights"
headline_29	Feasibility: Is Independence for Tibet feasible?
pro_29_1	Tibet's independence cause enjoys substantial legitimacy in the world.	Tibet's independence cause enjoys substantial legitimacy in the world. Ketsun Lobsang Dondup. "Independence as Tibet’s Only Option: Why the ‘Middle Path’ is a Dead End". January 25, 2007 - "China is not the Soviet Union or Indonesia, but then, Tibet is not Lithuania or East Timor because Tibet’s cause enjoys even greater prominence and legitimacy for much of the world."
pro_29_2	Tibet can follow the East Timor model to achieving independence	Tibet can follow the East Timor model to achieving independence Ketsun Lobsang Dondup. "Independence as Tibet’s Only Option: Why the ‘Middle Path’ is a Dead End". January 25, 2007 - "China also has deep structural problems such as an inflexible political system, growing economic inequality, rampant corruption and pollution, spreading protests and disorder, and unstable nationalism directed against Taiwan, Japan, and the U.S. As Professor Samuel Huntington explained in his classic, Political Order in Changing Societies, economic growth and the mobilization of new social forces combined with inflexible politics often leads to disorder. Tibet’s best hope lies in being able to use the East Timor model to exploit disorder in China to regain independence."
con_29_1	Dalai Lama believes independence is not the solution for Tibet	Dalai Lama believes independence is not the solution for Tibet
con_29_2	The Dalai Lama is not for independence.	The Dalai Lama is not for independence.  The Dalai Lama is a key figure and you could almost say is the most influencial person in Tibet. He is against Tibet becoming a free nation and says that if Tibet was independent, it wouldn't be able to look after itself. Tibet is currently dependent on China.
con_29_3	Independence would likely turn violent and contravene Buddhist non-violence.	Independence would likely turn violent and contravene Buddhist non-violence.
con_29_4	The US will not jeopardize trade with China to support a Tibet independence.	The US will not jeopardize trade with China to support a Tibet independence. "5 reasons why Tibet unlike Kosovo will not become independent". World Front Page. March 10th, 2008 - "Becoming more and more dependent on Chinese import United States will not support Tibet independence. In historic perspective this is not entirely something new, since American cowboy attitude (profits first!) towards native people is well known."
con_29_5	India will not support Tibet Independence out of fear of encouraging separatists in India.	India will not support Tibet Independence out of fear of encouraging separatists in India. "5 reasons why Tibet unlike Kosovo will not become independent". World Front Page. March 10th, 2008 - "Fearing separatist movements on its own territory India will block Tibet independence as it already happened in the past. In November 1950 Tibet appealed to the United Nations for international assistance to oppose Chinese annexation. The Indian delegate to the United Nations opposed the inclusion of the question on the agenda. The issue was dropped on India's insistence."
con_29_6	China's permanent membership on the UN Security Council gives it substantial leverage against Tibetan independence.	China's permanent membership on the UN Security Council gives it substantial leverage against Tibetan independence.  "5 reasons why Tibet unlike Kosovo will not become independent". World Front Page. March 10th, 2008 - "4. China is a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council and a nuclear superpower, which makes a lot of difference."
con_29_7	China is highly unlikely to agree to any negotiations without ruling out Tibet independence	China is highly unlikely to agree to any negotiations without ruling out Tibet independence Jill McGivering. "China's quandary over Tibet's future". BBC. March 20th 2008 - "It is extremely unlikely China would agree to any negotiations unless, as a pre-condition, independence was ruled out. China does not want to set a precedent that could influence other ethnic minorities."
con_29_8	Tibet is too integrated into China to break away	 Tibet is too integrated into China to break away
headline_30	International stability: Is independence consistent with maintaining international order?
pro_30_1	Tibet independence would reduce the risks of Tibetan refugee crises.	Tibet independence would reduce the risks of Tibetan refugee crises. In 2008, Tibetans, angry about their treatment under China's rule, spoke out in protest. China reacted by violently suppressing them. This in itself is a threat to international security, risking to spark a civil conflict that spills over into other countries, namely India. Refugees are a particularly relevant concern, and the Tibetan refugee-diaspora in India is notable in this regard.
pro_30_2	China's militarization of Tibet is a regional risk	 China's militarization of Tibet is a regional risk
pro_30_3	Tibet independence would end international protests and diplomatic tensions.	Tibet independence would end international protests and diplomatic tensions. This caused international outrage, protests, and diplomatic strains. The international public reacted very angrily and loudly at China for its suppression of Tibetan protests in 2008. This has resulted in massive pro-China and pro-Tibet protests, which create strains and are threatening internationally.
pro_30_4	It would be good for the world for other legitimate secessionist movements to succeed in achieving independence.	It would be good for the world for other legitimate secessionist movements to succeed in achieving independence. In history, and especially in the 20th century, states have established independence for good reason and with positive effect on the international system. After India gained her independence, a whole succession of African and Asian nations also became free from their European colonial "masters". In the nineties, with the fall of the Berlin wall, another series of countries gained their freedom, this time from the Soviet yoke. Tibetan independence could well precipitate, or at least herald, a new era of freedom not only for neighbouring countries such as Burma, East Turkestan, and Southern Mongolia but even for the people of China itself. These are not developments to be feared, but are positive phenomena in the world.
pro_30_5	The US supports Dalai Lama and his cause	The US supports Dalai Lama and his cause
con_30_1	As the UN acknowledges in its charter, independence is a domestic issue outside of the international scope	As the UN acknowledges in its charter, independence is a domestic issue outside of the international scope
headline_31	Western imperialism: Is it wrong to simplify the conflict as between China and imperialists?
con_31_1	Foreign powers are simply meddling in China through Tibet.	Foreign powers are simply meddling in China through Tibet. Finally, the PRC considers all pro-independence movements aimed at ending Chinese sovereignty in Tibet, including British attempts to establish control in the late 19th century and early 20th century [23], the CIA's backing of Tibetan insurgents during the 1950s and 1960s, [24][25] and the Government of Tibet in Exile today, [20] as one long campaign abetted by malicious Western imperialism aimed at destroying Chinese territorial integrity and sovereignty, or destabilizing China, thereby weakening China's position in the world [26].
con_31_2	The New York Times commented on the American policy during the Cold War:	The New York Times commented on the American policy during the Cold War: "The decade-long covert program to support the Tibetan independence movement was part of the C.I.A.'s worldwide effort to undermine Communist governments, particularly in the Soviet Union and China.[24]"
con_31_3	The American Tibetologist Tom Grunfeld writes (that after The Cold War):	The American Tibetologist Tom Grunfeld writes (that after The Cold War): "While officially recognizing Tibet as part of China, the U.S. Congress and White House unofficially encourage the campaign for independence."
con_31_4	There have been protests on nearly every leg of the Olympic torch relay.	There have been protests on nearly every leg of the Olympic torch relay. The Olympic torch relay has been to many major cities including Paris and San Fransisco and each leg of the relay, there have been protests against China taking over Tibet. In one city, the flame was put out by protesters 5 times. The Beijing Olympics in China is turning out to be extremely controversial and some countries are even considering pulling out because they are against Chinese policies and want Tibet freedom.
headline_32	UN/International Law: Does Tibet have a right to independence under international law?
pro_32_1	From a legal stand point Tibet is an illegally occupied independent country	From a legal stand point Tibet is an illegally occupied independent country
con_32_1	The United Nations does charter discourages disruptions of national unity such as a move to Tibetan Independence.	The United Nations does charter discourages disruptions of national unity such as a move to Tibetan Independence. The Chinese government insists that the United Nations documents, which codifies the principle of self-determination, provides that the principle shall not be abused in disrupting territorial integrity: "Any attempt aimed at the partial or total disruption of the national unity and the territorial integrity of a country is incompatible with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations...."[40]
headline_33	Inclusion of Qinghai and Western Sichuan within the borders of an independent Tibet
pro_33_1	Parts of Qinghai and Western Sichuan are essentially Tibetan and should therefore be united with Tibet if Tibet ever becomes independent.	Parts of Qinghai and Western Sichuan are essentially Tibetan and should therefore be united with Tibet if Tibet ever becomes independent. These areas have long been historically part of Tibet and were separated from Tibet when China invaded. These areas have still a reasonably high percentage of Tibetan population despite the Chinese government's ongoing efforts to demographically destroy Tibet's claims to these areas. The regions of Garzê, Ngawa,Haixi, Haibei, Hainan, Huangnan, Yushu, and Golog are recognised by the Chinese government as Tibetan "autonomous" regions. The fact that the Chinese government recognise that these places are essentially Tibetan provides further reason for them to be reunited with Tibet.
headline_34	Independence vs. autonomy: Is independence for Tibet a better goal than autonomy?
pro_34_1	The Chinese government will not compromise and offer Tibet autonomy	The Chinese government will not compromise and offer Tibet autonomy
pro_34_2	China is exploiting the good intentions of the Middle Way	China is exploiting the good intentions of the Middle Way
pro_34_3	Tibetan cultural identity can survive only outside of China's modernization agenda	Tibetan cultural identity can survive only outside of China's modernization agenda
pro_34_4	Tibetans in exile enjoy greater freedom currently than autonomy could offer	Tibetans in exile enjoy greater freedom currently than autonomy could offer Tsoltim N. Shakabpa. "The case againts autonomy for Tibet". January 14, 2008 - "Communist Chinese for an official agreement to have autonomous status for Tibet, we will be surrendering many of the rights we are now entitled to[...]"
pro_34_5	If Tibetans accept autonomy, they will close the door to independence in the future.	If Tibetans accept autonomy, they will close the door to independence in the future. Tsoltim N. Shakabpa. "The case againts autonomy for Tibet". January 14, 2008 - "Communist Chinese for an official agreement to have autonomous status for Tibet, we will be surrendering many of the rights we are now entitled to[...]"and locking ourselves into a constricted and precarious situation forever from which we cannot withdraw."
pro_34_6	China claims Tibet is autonomous; independendce is only other option	China claims Tibet is autonomous; independendce is only other option
con_34_1	Dalai Lama believes independence is not the solution for Tibet	Dalai Lama believes independence is not the solution for Tibet
con_34_2	Greater autonomy for Tibet is more realistic than independence.	Greater autonomy for Tibet is more realistic than independence. Some point to China's claim that Tibet is already "autonomous" as some kind of a sign that greater autonomy is impossible and that independence is, therefore, more feasible. This is not the case. Tibet is, in fact, not very autonomous. China could provide it with much greater autonomy without risking too much. This is certainly something China would be more willing to concede than full independence.
