title	Veal
question	Is the farming and consumption of veal acceptable?
headline_1	Killing calves: Is it acceptable to kill baby calves for veal?
pro_1_1	If cattle can be killed tolerably, what makes killing them as calves unethical?	If cattle can be killed tolerably, what makes killing them as calves unethical? It is important to realize that cows are farmed to be killed, butchered, and eaten. There is no real dispute that this ethically acceptable. So, what could make killing cattle at an earlier stage ethically unacceptable? If killing cows is acceptable, than it should be acceptable at any stage in the life of cows. Sympathy should not be extended to calves simply because they are young and maybe cute. No analogous sympathy and special consideration is extended to baby humans. Killing a baby human is just as unacceptable as killing an adult human. By analogy, killing a baby cow should be just as tolerable as killing a cow. 
pro_1_2	Veal is to cattle as lamb is to sheep	 Veal is to cattle as lamb is to sheep Predicting a rise in consumer interest, a Tesco spokesman said: "Veal is to cattle what lamb is to sheep and recent TV shows such as The F Word have done a lot to explain that it is OK to eat veal if its production meets strict welfare standards."[1]
pro_1_3	Veal farming is a good alternative to the slaughtering of unwanted calves	 Veal farming is a good alternative to the slaughtering of unwanted calves The dairy industry as well as the meat industry often slaughter baby calves for a variety of reasons, either because more calves are born than are needed to supply either dairy production or cow meet, or because the calves that are born will be of an undesirable quality when they grow up, either as a source of dairy products or of meat. It is better to rear these calves for veal than to slaughter them wastefully.
con_1_1	It is cruel to harm and kill baby cows at such an early age.	It is cruel to harm and kill baby cows at such an early age. Human dignity demands that a special respect be given to the lives of baby animals. To subject a baby cow to cruel treatment and death at the early age of 3 months violates this notion of human dignity, and so should be stopped. 
con_1_2	Humans use products from calves, but calves do not use human products.	Humans use products from calves, but calves do not use human products. Nearly all calves that have ever existed have been used for human use. This is extremely unfair and is a complete abuse to animal rights and dignity. Humans use calves for many purposes, including veal, which is a main resource. But it is not fair for humans get get food and dairy out of calves, because humans do not giving anything back to these poor calves.
con_1_3	If someone killed a human at any age it would be murder, so why should it be any different with cows.	If someone killed a human at any age it would be murder, so why should it be any different with cows.  Cows are intelligent creatures and there is no way they should be murdered for human consumption.  Would you want to die? No. So why kill others.
headline_2	General humaneness: Is veal farming generally humane or cruel?
pro_2_1	Modern veal producers follow strict regulations on humane treatment	 Modern veal producers follow strict regulations on humane treatment Modern veal producers use advanced husbandry practices, as outlined in the Recommended Code of Practice for the Care and Handling of Veal Calves, which regulates such things as stall sizes and structures. Farmers, researchers, and processors in conjunction with the Canadian Federation of Humane Societies, Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada wrote this code in 1984. Copies of it can be found at www.livestockwelfare.com. 
pro_2_2	If humane practices are not being followed, than regulations can be improved.	If humane practices are not being followed, than regulations can be improved. That the treatment of baby cows is cruel in some farms does not mean that such treatment will persist. Regulations can be passed to end such cruel and undignified treatments. But, to ban veal farming all together would be to overcompensate for current regulation failures. 
con_2_1	Veal calves are kept in tortuous conditions	 Veal calves are kept in tortuous conditions "Veal: A Cruel Meal" - "The real issue is the calves' experience. During their brief lives, they never see the sun or touch the Earth. They never see or taste the grass. Their anemic bodies crave proper sustenance. Their muscles ache for freedom and exercise. They long for maternal care. They are kept in darkness except to be fed two to three times a day for 20 minutes. The calves have committed no crime, yet have been sentenced to a fate comparable to any Nazi concentration camp."
con_2_2	Veal farming is inherently abusive to calves to meet market demands	 Veal farming is inherently abusive to calves to meet market demands After baby cows are taken away from their mothers and sold at auctions, they are taken to a tiny wooden crates that they will live in for the rest of their short lives. They cannot exercise or even lie down and they are kept in darkness and deprived of certain nutrients, in order to ensure that their muscles remain weak and tender when consumed by humans. Treating baby cows in this way is not justified by any human desire for tender meat.[2]
con_2_3	A ban on veal farming would provide an important boost to animal rights.	A ban on veal farming would provide an important boost to animal rights. The inherently cruel treatment of baby cows for veal meat must stop, and a ban would really boost animal's rights and welfare.
con_2_4	Anything which involves murdering animals is cruel .	Anything which involves murdering animals is cruel . Murder is cruel, always. Animals have a mind, they feel pain, they don't ant to die. So we are going against the perfectly reasonable wish of the animals.
headline_3	Hutches: Is the raising of veal in hutches acceptable or cruel?
pro_3_1	Hutches are an important part of classic veal production.	Hutches are an important part of classic veal production. Hutches keep veal weak and their muscles atrophied so that they are tender to eat. This tenderness is an important part of the history and culture of veal consumption. The tenderness of the meat has always been its signature feature, and continues to be in high demand. There is importance to this cultural delicacy that must be considered, even against the treatment of the veal that is required to procure this delicacy. 
pro_3_2	Hutches can be more comfortable for veal calves.	Hutches can be more comfortable for veal calves. There is no inherently bad quality about hutches. Certainly, many are designed to be so small as to prevent veal calves from moving around. If this is deemed unethical, however, hutches could be enlarged to allow calves to turn around, stretch their legs, and even get comfortable on a bed of hay. Reform is possible and has frequently been implemented. 
pro_3_3	Hutches could be abandoned without banning veal production completely.	Hutches could be abandoned without banning veal production completely. The American Veal Association, for instance, passed a resolution in 2008 that calls for the veal industry to phase out the use of individual stalls. Such a phasing out could occur in other places, if we conclude that they are bad, with the result that the veal industry is simply modified to be more cruel. 
con_3_1	Calves are kept in inhuman conditions in hutches	 Calves are kept in inhuman conditions in hutches "Veal: A Cruel Meal" - "Solitary Confinement The veal crate is a wooden restraining device that is the veal calf's permanent home. It is so small (22" x 54") that the calves cannot turn around or even lie down and stretch and is the ultimate in high-profit, confinement animal agriculture.(1) Designed to prevent movement (exercise), the crate does its job of atrophying the calves' muscles, thus producing tender 'gourmet' veal."
headline_4	Loose housing: Is loose housing a (more) acceptable form of raising veal?
pro_4_1	Loose housing allows calves to roam free.	"Loose housing" allows calves to roam free. "Loose housing" allows calves to roam free when grazing and at other times. It allows them to stretch their legs, get sunlight, "socialize" to some extent, and to generally live more ordinary lives than if they were kept in hutches.  
con_4_1	Loose housing for calves often subjects them to bullying and apprehension.	Loose housing for calves often subjects them to bullying and apprehension. By allowing male calves to roam and graze with one-another, bullying often occurs with the result of apprehensions and fear among calves. These apprehensions and fears may leave calves no better off than if they are kept in isolation.
headline_5	Milk diet: Is a milk only diet for calves inhumane?
pro_5_1	Milk-based diets are healthy and humane for veal	 Milk-based diets are healthy and humane for veal "What is wrong with veal?". Animal Defenders International. Retrieved 4.07.08 - "Milk-based diets are balanced rations that involve commercial milk replacers, which utilize surplus skim milk powder and whey – both byproducts of the dairy industry – in their production. These commercial milk replacers are of equal or greater nutritional value than milk straight from the dairy cow. A great deal of time and care are taken to train the young calves to drink their milk from pails, and during this training period their diet will be supplemented with water and electrolytes to ensure they receive adequate fluids and nutrition."
con_5_1	Calves are fed inhumane milk diets to keep them anemic and their meat pale	 Calves are fed inhumane milk diets to keep them anemic and their meat pale The iron-deficiency of this diet is what causes the anemia of calves that keeps their meat desirably pale. Iron-deficiencies and anemia create a host of problems in veal, including continual diarrheas (which is shown in the below image), and a vulnerability to diseases (which may also be on display in the below image).
headline_6	Grain diets: Are grain-only diets for veal inhumane?
pro_6_1	Grain-only diets are adequate for calf veal farming	 Grain-only diets are adequate for calf veal farming "You were asking about… Veal Calves". Farm Issues.com - "Grain-based diets are usually a balanced corn-based feed that contains supplemental protein, vitamins and minerals, and it becomes the calves’ exclusive diet after weaning.  Feed is usually available on a free choice basis. A market weight, 272-kilogram grain-fed calf will consume 7 kilograms of feed per day." 
con_6_1	Grain diets are rare in veal because it produces tougher meat.	Grain diets are rare in veal because it produces tougher meat. Milk is much more frequently used in veal production because it produces the desirable effects of anemia, which results in more tender and paler meat, which is what the market appears to desire. This makes it inappropriate to emphasize the acceptability of veal reared on grain diets.
headline_7	Economics: Is veal farming an economically important industry?
pro_7_1	Veal farming is an economically important industry that cannot be scrapped	 Veal farming is an economically important industry that cannot be scrapped If we were to ban veal farming, many people would lose their jobs and the whole veal industry would be destroyed. Many people do make a living out of killing veal and selling the meat. It would be bad for the industry, our economy and - nearly everyone. Chefs, farmers, butchers; even truck drivers would be affected if veal farming was banned. It would mean a loss of many, many jobs, people's careers and people's money; lots of people would lose wages and lose many. Just think of how big a blow this would be on society.
pro_7_2	Veal farming is a good alternative to the slaughtering of unwanted calves	 Veal farming is a good alternative to the slaughtering of unwanted calves Economically speaking, using unwanted calves for veal is a more efficient and socially desirable result than simply wasting this good and valuable meat.
pro_7_3	The inefficient land-use of veal is not a justification to ban veal.	The inefficient land-use of veal is not a justification to ban veal. While cattle farming may be inefficient, this is not a sufficient justification for banning the practice, unless land-use is seen as a major, pressing societal problem. In most societies, it is not a problem at all or is not a problem sufficient to justify any government against against cattle and veal farming. 
pro_7_4	If cattle land-use is a problem, the markets are best for solving the problem.	If cattle land-use is a problem, the markets are best for solving the problem. The government should not intervene where the markets are more capable of doing so. If land-use is a problem, and if cattle take up more land per calorie produced than other  forms of produce, than we would expect the price of meet to rise significantly relative to other agricultural goods. This would cause the demand for cattle and meat to fall, which would lower the production of cattle and veal and the land used in the production of these goods. Such a market-based response to heavy cattle land-use is better than any governmental response to the problem. 
pro_7_5	If veal is forbidden in one country it's often simply exported abroad.	If veal is forbidden in one country it's often simply exported abroad. unwanted calves being slaughtered at birth or exported to veal farms in mainland Europe.
con_7_1	Veal farming is wasteful of the growth potential of a baby cow.	Veal farming is wasteful of the growth potential of a baby cow. Killing baby cows can be seen as a wasteful and inefficient practice. It would be far more efficient and cost-effective to allow a baby cow to grow to its full size, and then killed for its meat.  
con_7_2	Veal and cattle production is a generally inefficient use of land	 Veal and cattle production is a generally inefficient use of land "What is wrong with veal?". Animal Defenders International. Retrieved 4.07.08 - "In addition to the unnecessary cruelty that millions of cows, calves and cattle must face, there are other factors involved in meat/dairy production to consider. Most of the world’s agricultural land (4/5ths) is used to grow food for farm animals. A cow has to eat 10lbs of grain for every 1lb of beef produced. The world’s cattle consume an amount of food equal to the calorie needs of double the population of the planet!"
headline_8	Consumption/taste: Is veal desirable to consume, tasty, and health?
pro_8_1	Veal is low in fat	 Veal is low in fat Juliette Jowit, environment editor. "Veal back on a guilt-free British menu". The Observer. January 20 2008 - "Veal is also seen as attractive to health-conscious shoppers, because it is low in fat - a benefit highlighted by the Channel 4 programme Cook Yourself Thin last week, when it substituted veal for half the beef in spaghetti bolognese."
pro_8_2	Veal is easy and fast to cook	 Veal is easy and fast to cook Juliette Jowit, environment editor. "Veal back on a guilt-free British menu". The Observer. January 20 2008 - "Another selling point is that it's fast to cook, said Gill Smith of Waitrose, the only supermarket that continued to sell British veal for 20 years: 'A thin-cut fillet can go from pan to plate in minutes, so it appeals to a new generation of foodies who are time-poor.'"
pro_8_3	Veal tastes very nice.	Veal tastes very nice. Veal is liked by many people and tastes very nice and tender. The meat of veal is expensive but delicious and some people eat it even though they are aware of and against the animal rights abuse that goes on in the process of getting the meat. The veals' inhumane conditions mean that we are given the best meat possible. While the inhumanness of it can certainly be seen as a cost, it is inappropriate to avoid considering what that cost leads toward; an often highly positive, culturally-rooted human experience. It is arguable that this human experience is worth the pain suffered by an animal, particularly if we subscribe to a "human-dominion-over-animals" world-view. 
con_8_1	Veal calves require antibiotics and medicine that are passed onto consumers	 Veal calves require antibiotics and medicine that are passed onto consumers "Veal: A Cruel Meal" - "Because of such extremely unhealthy living conditions and restricted diets, calves are susceptible to a long list of diseases, including chronic pneumonia and 'scours,' or constant diarrhea. Consequently, they must be given massive doses of antibiotics and other drugs just to keep them alive. (The antibiotics are passed on to consumers in the meat.).
headline_9	Culture: Is veal an important part of various cultures that needs to be preserved?
pro_9_1	Veal has been part of many countries cultures for hundreds of years.	Veal has been part of many countries cultures for hundreds of years. Since many hundreds of years ago, humas have realised about how to make veal and that it tastes nice. It has become part of many countries' cultures and banning the production of veal would hurt these countries. Veal farming has been going on for hundreds of years.
con_9_1	Modern cultures are shifting against veal.	Modern cultures are shifting against veal. Many people who are concerned about animal rights refuse to buy veal. The number of people who don't buy it are in the millions and this number is increasing as anti-veal campaigners spread the message about how cruel cows are treated in the process of making veal. Many people have stopped buying veal and restaurants have started to take this product off the menu and therefore veal is in less demand. Banning veal production would please more people than it would disappoint. A ban would make human rights and animal rights activists particularly happy. They are particularly disgusted by veal production, and it is important to consider that their disgust, and the disgust of others is part of the modern culture. By extension banning veal production would please and strengthen segment of modern culture. 
headline_10	
pro_10_1	Many people are against whaling, veal is even worse.	Many people are against whaling, veal is even worse. Many people are opposed to practises such as whaling and killing pig, lamb or other animals for meat. Killing this meat for veal is just like these practises, except even worse. The living conditions the cows lived in for their short lives were appalling, the cows were constantly contracting diseases, were forced to be weak and sore all over, all the time. Animals like chickens and sheep have much better living conditions than cows used in veal - these cows get shoved into a tiny crate and then get killed in a bloody death. This is, really, like whaling except even worse: About 1000 whales every year are killed, but veal get killied every day in the thousands. And, at least whales get freedom during their lifetime.
