title	Muhammad cartoons controversy
question	Was Danish newspaper Jyllands-Posten right to publish cartons of Muhammad in 2005?
headline_1	Summary of arguments
headline_2	Summary of motions
headline_3	Legality: Were the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons legal?
pro_3_1	The Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons were legal.	The Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons were legal. On October 27, 2005, a number of Muslim organizations filed a complaint with the Danish police claiming that Jyllands-Posten had committed an offence under section 140 and 266b of the Danish Criminal Code, relating to blasphemy and degrading insults.[1] On 6 January 2006, however, the Regional Public Prosecutor in Viborg discontinued the investigation as he found no basis for concluding that the cartoons constituted a criminal offense. His reason is based on his finding that the article concerns a subject of public interest and, further, on Danish case law which extends editorial freedom to journalists when it comes to a subject of public interest. He stated that, in assessing what constitutes an offence, the right to freedom of speech must be taken into consideration. He stated that the right to freedom of speech must be exercised with the necessary respect for other human rights, including the right to protection against discrimination, insult and degradation, but no apparent violation of the law had occurred.[2] The Director of Public Prosecutors in Denmark agreed.
con_3_1	The cartoons violated Danish blasphemy and degradation laws.	The cartoons violated Danish blasphemy and degradation laws. On October 27, 2005, a number of Muslim organizations filed a complaint with the Danish police claiming that Jyllands-Posten had committed an offense under section 140 and 266b of the Danish Criminal Code.[25]
headline_4	Xenophobia: Were the Jyllands-Posten cartoons tolerant or xenophobic?
pro_4_1	The bomb in turban cartoon was aimed at extremists, not Islam generally	 The "bomb in turban" cartoon was aimed at extremists, not Islam generally. On February 26, the cartoonist who had drawn the "bomb in turban" picture, the most controversial of the twelve, explained: There are interpretations of it [the drawing] that are incorrect. The general impression among Muslims is that it is about Islam as a whole. It is not. It is about certain fundamentalist aspects, that of course are not shared by everyone. But the fuel for the terrorists’ acts stem from interpretations of Islam. [...] if parts of a religion develop in a totalitarian and aggressive direction, then I think you have to protest. We did so under the other 'isms.
pro_4_2	The Muslim world has presented an image of itself that is partly to blame for the Muhammad cartoons.	The Muslim world has presented an image of itself that is partly to blame for the Muhammad cartoons. In Iraq, the country's top Shiite cleric, Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, decried the drawings but did not call for protests. Al-Sistani suggested that militant Muslims were partly to blame for distorting Islam's image.[3] In the United Arab Emirates, the periodical Al-Ittihad published an opinion piece which argued that, "The world has come to believe that Islam is what is practiced by Bin Laden, Zawahiri, Zarqawi, the Muslim Brotherhood, the Salafis, and others who have presented a distorted image of Islam. We must be honest with ourselves and admit that we are the reason for these drawings."[4]
pro_4_3	The Bomb in Turban addresses parts of Islam that inspire terrorism	 The "Bomb in Turban" addresses parts of Islam that inspire terrorism There are elements of Islam and the Quran that do inspire violent acts and that are used by terrorists as fuel for their acts. The "Bomb in Turban" cartoon was meant by its author as a representation of the elements of Islam and the Quran that act in this way to inspire terrorism. While this is not meant to indict Islam in general. Rather, it is simply meant to highlight the parts of the Quran and Islam that do give fuel to terrorists.  
pro_4_4	The Danish cartoons only unveiled an inevitable clash of civilizations.	The Danish cartoons only unveiled an inevitable clash of civilizations. The Danish cartoons did not create a clash and conflict. Rather, they simply unveiled a deep seated and inevitable clash of civilizations that would have been brought to the surface regardless of whether the Danish cartoons had been published.
pro_4_5	Cartoonists were helping integrate Muslims into Dutch culture of religious satire by bashing Islam.	Cartoonists were helping integrate Muslims into Dutch culture of religious satire by bashing Islam. On February 19, Flemming Rose, Jyllands-Posten's culture editor, commented in the Washington Post. "The cartoonists treated Islam the same way they treat Christianity, Buddhism, Hinduism and other religions. And by treating Muslims in Denmark as equals they made a point: We are integrating you into the Danish tradition of satire because you are part of our society, not strangers. The cartoons are including, rather than excluding, Muslims."
con_4_1	The Muhammad cartoons have stimulated an international xenophobic, free speech competition.	The Muhammad cartoons have stimulated an international xenophobic, free speech competition. Hamshahri, Iran's largest newspaper announced that it would hold an "international cartoon contest about the Holocaust" in reaction to the images. The paper's graphics editor said, "The Western papers printed these sacrilegious cartoons on the pretext of freedom of expression, so let's see if they mean what they say and also print these Holocaust cartoons".[5]
con_4_2	The Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons were damaging to inter-faith harmony.	The Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons were damaging to inter-faith harmony. Danish Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen in 12 October 2005, in order to discuss what they perceived as an "on-going smearing campaign in Danish public circles and media against Islam and Muslims" - "We deplore these statements and publications and urge Your Excellency’s government to take all those responsible to task under law of the land in the interest of inter-faith harmony, better integration and Denmark's overall relations with the Muslim world."[6]
con_4_3	The Bomb in Turban cartoon wrongly associated Islam with terrorism	 The "Bomb in Turban" cartoon wrongly associated Islam with terrorism One of the most famous Danish cartoon depicted Muhammad with a bomb in his turban. The obvious implication of this cartoon was that Islam somehow inherently fosters terrorism. This is offensive, insulting, and degrading. "It is the satirical intent of the cartoonists and the association of the Prophet with terrorism, that is so offensive to the vast majority of Muslims."  
con_4_4	The Jylands-Posten cartoons created an international impression of Denmark as Xenophobic.	The Jylands-Posten cartoons created an international impression of Denmark as Xenophobic. Whether or not one believes that the cartoons were appropriate, the truth is that it stimulated an international impression of the Danish people as a xenophobic and potentially hateful. Or, at least, is has created an impression of the Danish people as the instigators of the international upheaval that resulted from the publishing of these cartoons; upheaval in which nearly 100 people died. Regardless of the justifications, that Denmark and its people are seen as the instigators of this all reflects poorly on them. The Denmark based 'Euro-Mediterranean Human Rights Network' said "the cartoons among others things identified Islam with terrorism, (this) can only increase the xenophobia and racism that these populations are already victims of in Europe. Furthermore, this kind of image contributes to discrediting entire countries and their populations."
headline_5	Images in Islam: Are images of Muhammad acceptable in the Muslim faith?
pro_5_1	The Quran does not explicitly prohibit images of Muhammad	 The Quran does not explicitly prohibit images of Muhammad. It prohibts idolatry, but not explicitly visual representations of Muhammad. It reads, "Behold! he said to his father and his people, 'What are these images, to which ye are (so assiduously) devoted?' They said, 'We found our fathers worshipping them.' He said, 'Indeed ye have been in manifest error - ye and your fathers.' sura 21, 52-54)." Muhammad is criticizing Muslims for worshiping an image. But, he does not explicitly criticize the image itself. It should noted that the Dutch cartoons that were created were images that were made outside of the context of worship, and could not be misconstrued as engendering idolatry.
pro_5_2	The Hadith does not exactly forbid publishing images of Muhammad	 The Hadith does not exactly forbid publishing images of Muhammad. 
pro_5_3	Many Muslim groups tolerate images of Muhammad.	Many Muslim groups tolerate images of Muhammad. Iranian Shi'a scholars, accept respectful depictions, and use illustrations of Muhammad in books and architectural decoration, as have Sunnis at various points in the past. 
con_5_1	Images of Muhammad are forbidden because they lead to idolatry.	Images of Muhammad are forbidden because they lead to idolatry. Many parts of the Muslim community reject images of Muhammad on the basis that they can lead to idolatry. This is where the worship of an image outweighs the worship of God himself. In the Muslim faith, the individual's relationship with God and with his principles is more important than worshiping an image of Muhammad. 
con_5_2	Even if images of Muhammad are acceptable, hateful images are not.	Even if images of Muhammad are acceptable, hateful images are not. While it can be argued that it is OK and acceptable to show images of Muhammad, denegrating images of Muhammad are obviously not acceptable to the Muslim faith. The Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons were hateful and insulting, and so are by no means tolerable within the Muslim faith.
headline_6	Free speech: Did publishing the cartoons uphold free speech?
pro_6_1	Western free-speech culture must be upheld over models of Muslim censorship	 Western free-speech culture must be upheld over models of Muslim censorship. It should be recognized that a Clash of Civilizations exists in the modern day. Part of the clash orients around free speech and censorship. While the West upholds free speech models, much of the Muslim community upholds censorship models.
pro_6_2	Publishing images of Muhammad helps combat self-censorship.	Publishing images of Muhammad helps combat self-censorship. Self-censorship is a major concern, particularly in relation to coverage of Islam, where journalists avoid coverage of a particular subject area because it is seen as too contentious and potentially risky for them, their careers, and even their lives. The Danish Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons were published explicitly to combat this problem. It read, "We are on our way to a slippery slope where no-one can tell how the self-censorship will end. That is why Morgenavisen Jyllands-Posten has invited members of the Danish editorial cartoonists union to draw Muhammad as they see him."[7]
pro_6_3	Argument: Jyllands-Posten cartoons have led to the curtailment of free speech	Argument: Jyllands-Posten cartoons have led to the curtailment of free speech. Free speech in countries around the world has been curtailed since the Jyllands-Posten cartoon controversy broke. Newspapers and governments have increasingly constrained the ability of journalists to publish images of Muhammad in any form (even very mild forms). This is an unfortunate step backwards for free speech.
pro_6_4	Argument: Religious people must be tolerant of criticism in a modern democracy	Argument: Religious people must be tolerant of criticism in a modern democracy. In a modern democracy, religious faiths must be open to criticism. The state cannot and should not protect faiths from criticisms, even harsh ones, assuming that these criticisms do not go so far as to incite violence (hate crimes). To cry out against the publishing of images depicting Muhammad is to be intolerant of religious criticism. 
pro_6_5	Flemming Rose, Jyllands-Posten's culture editor, commented.	Flemming Rose, Jyllands-Posten's culture editor, commented. "The modern, secular society is rejected by some Muslims. They demand a special position, insisting on special consideration of their own religious feelings. It is incompatible with contemporary democracy and freedom of speech, where you must be ready to put up with insults, mockery and ridicule. It is certainly not always attractive and nice to look at, and it does not mean that religious feelings should be made fun of at any price, but that is of minor importance in the present context. [...] we are on our way to a slippery slope where no-one can tell how the self-censorship will end. That is why Morgenavisen Jyllands-Posten has invited members of the Danish editorial cartoonists union to draw Muhammad as they see him. [...]"[8]
pro_6_6	The Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons stimulate debate and understanding.	The Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons stimulate debate and understanding. Some Muslims, mainly in Europe, have supported the re-publication of these cartoon images so that individual Muslims can make up their own minds and welcomed the debate on the issues that that cartoons have raised. This debate raises important and valuable questions about what is appropriate and what is not in a Western democracy today. It raises positive questions about how we can, as Muslims and people of other faiths, get along at a higher level.
con_6_1	No exercise in free speech that results in deaths can be justified.	No exercise in free speech that results in deaths can be justified. It is reported that in the international violent protests that resulted from the Jyllands-Posten cartoons, that more than 100 people died. Regardless of whether the violent protests were justified, it is clear that they were a reaction to and result of the Jyllands-Posten cartoons. 
con_6_2	The cartoons were an exercise in hate, rather than free, speech.	The cartoons were an exercise in hate, rather than free, speech. Louay M. Safi, scholar and Muslim American leaders argued that the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons were an exercise in hate, rather than free, speech. Dr. Safi accused Jyllands-Poten editors of hidding behind free speech to promote anti Muslim feelings and demonize the small but growoing Danish Muslim community. He distinguished between free speech that aims at engaging an important issue, and hate speech whose goal is to marginalize and intimate, and argued that Jyllands-Posten was evidently guilty of the latter.
con_6_3	Freedom of expression should not be excercised through deliberately insulting means.	Freedom of expression should not be excercised through deliberately insulting means. Freedom of expression is a good thing. It is good to express it. But, a newspaper should not express it through deliberately insulting means, such as through images of Muhammad with a bomb as his turbine. By comparison, simply publishing the image of Muhammad could pass as a mild and appropriate exercise in freedom of expression. 
con_6_4	Muslims have the right to protest the publishing of images of Muhammad.	Muslims have the right to protest the publishing of images of Muhammad. While it may be legal and within the bound of free speech for a newspaper to publish images of Muhammad, it is also legal and within the bounds of free speech for Muslims to protest the publishing of these images. Just as journalists have a right to criticize the Islamic faith, so do Muslims have the right to criticize journalists. The protests that followed the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons, it should be noted, did not call for government intervention, but simply criticized the motivations behind these cartoons. This is an acceptable protest, and should be respected. 
con_6_5	Protesters of the publishing of images of Muhammad desire tolerance and respect.	Protesters of the publishing of images of Muhammad desire tolerance and respect. Protests against the publishing of Images of Muhammad focus largely on the negative and intolerant messages that are behind these images. They focus on attempting to increase tolerance.
headline_7	Double standard: Are there double standards in this debate?
pro_7_1	Western cartoonists should not be held to a double standard	 Western cartoonists should not be held to a double standard Daniel Pipes argues that the pattern of events surrounding the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons shows Muslim hypocrisy and supremacism: "...will Westerners accede to a double standard by which Muslims are free to insult Judaism, Christianity, Hinduism and Buddhism, while Muhammad, Islam and Muslims enjoy immunity from insults? Muslims routinely publish cartoons far more offensive than the Danish ones... .... .... The deeper issue here, however, is not Muslim hypocrisy but Islamic supremacism."[9] 
pro_7_2	Argument: Muslims should not be given exceptional rights and protections	Argument: Muslims should not be given exceptional rights and protections All citizens of all faiths should be held to the same standards and should be equally protected under the law. If Muslims are given special treatment with the government protecting Islam from criticism in a greater way than other faiths are protected, than an arbitrary system has been established that diminishes the freedom of those that receive the short stick.
con_7_1	A tolerant double standard is being applied to the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons.	A tolerant double standard is being applied to the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons. If images had been published in the Middle East of Jesus with a bomb on his head, it would be seen as xenophobic. And, yet, images of Muhammad with a bomb on his head that are published in Denmark are seen as expressions of free speech. Mohammed al-Shaibani wrote in Kuwait's Al-Qabas daily on January 30 2006 - "In [the West] it is considered freedom of speech if they insult Islam and Muslims. But such freedom becomes racism and a breach of human rights and anti-Semitism if Arabs and Muslims criticize their religion and religious laws." 
headline_8	Government action: Should the Danish government have censored the cartoons?
pro_8_1	Because the cartoons were legal, they did not require a government response.	Because the cartoons were legal, they did not require a government response. The government is not required to intervene in a journalistic action that is deemed legal by Danish courts. While the Danish government can be criticized for not taking diplomatic steps to reduce tensions, it cannot be criticized for not censoring Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons, as there were not court orders that would have made such a maneuver appropriate.
pro_8_2	The Danish government should not be held responsible for the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons.	The Danish government should not be held responsible for the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons. The opinion of the Muslim Danish community is illustrative in this regard. While generally offended by the cartoons, most members of the Danish Muslim community actually condemned the violence that the drawings have sparked off in the Middle East, arguing that the state of Denmark is not to be held responsible for the drawings published by Jyllands-Posten.
con_8_1	Hateful and harmful representations of Muhammad are illegal and should be censored.	Hateful and harmful representations of Muhammad are illegal and should be censored. While it may be legal to publish images of Muhammad that are respectful, it is not legal in Denmark to publish hateful and denigrating images of Muhammad. The Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons were hateful and denigrating, particularly the image depicting Muhammad with a bomb in his Turban. The images can be seen, therefore, as illegal and warranting of government censorship.
con_8_2	Denmark's prime minister inappropriately avoided meeting with Denmark's Islamic ambassadors in October 2005.	Denmark's prime minister inappropriately avoided meeting with Denmark's Islamic ambassadors in October 2005. On December 20, 2005 twenty-two former Danish ambassadors sent an open letter to the prime-minister criticising his decision not to open a dialogue with the international representatives.[7] Clearly, there was frustration with the prime minister's decision to avoid dialogue on the controversy. Indeed, dialogue would have been an appropriate step to diffuse tensions, reduce long-term relational damage, and actually save lives. 
headline_9	Editors: Should the editors of Jyllands-Posten stay on board or resign?
