title	Clinton vs. Obama
question	Who is the better candidate, Hillary Clinton or Barack Obama?
headline_1	Experience: Does Clinton have more experience than Obama for being president?
headline_2	Inspiration: How do the candidates compare as far as their inspirational capacity?
headline_3	Democratic agenda: Which candidate is best for the Democratic agenda?
headline_4	General election: Who has a better chance of winning in the general elections?
headline_5	Woman vs. black man: Is the first female president more important than a black president?
pro_5_1	The first female president would be just as good as the first black president.	The first female president would be just as good as the first black president. There is no good reason why the first black president would be better than the first female president. There needs to be a first of both, so neither should be given preference over the other.    
con_5_1	It is more historic to elect the first black candidate than the first female candidate.	It is more historic to elect the first black candidate than the first female candidate. African Americans have been subject to greater injustices in American history than women. From slavery to current race inequality they have been a step behind women as far as leveling the playing field. This simply means that electing the first black president would be a bigger deal than electing the first female president.
con_5_2	It is more important to elect the first black candidate than the first female candidate.	It is more important to elect the first black candidate than the first female candidate. Racial tensions and problems abound in the United States, while gender issues are much less of a problem today. Obama is committed to helping solve these racial problems, as was displayed by his March 18, 2008 speech in Philadelphia. And, he is in a great position to do so, as the son of a mixed couple. His race, therefore, puts him in a better position to solve a much bigger outstanding social problem in America, as compared to Hilary helping solve any remaining gender issues). 
headline_6	Dynasty: Could electing Hillary avoid dynasty concerns?
pro_6_1	If Clinton's election would be dynastic, what about Bush II?	 If Clinton's election would be dynastic, what about Bush II? While there have been many dynasty fears and complaints regarding electing Hillary Clinton in 2008, the problem is that these same fears were not expressed when Bush ran for office in 2000. If these concerns are raised only with Hillary Clinton, it would seem that a double standard has been applied.
con_6_1	The election of Hilary Clinton would cause America to appear dynastic	 The election of Hilary Clinton would cause America to appear dynastic Family dynasties in the oval office should be feared. They concentrate power and undermine the image of the Democratic process in America. This is particularly true in the context that Hillary's election would mean that America has seen a Bush, Clinton, Bush, and Clinton in the oval office for the past two decades. This certainly gives the wrong impression about America's democratic nature.
headline_7	Bill Clinton: Would Bill Clinton be an asset or liability in the Whitehouse?
pro_7_1	Bill Clinton would be a major national asset as the first man.	Bill Clinton would be a major national asset as the first man. Bill Clinton is generally considered, at least among Democrats, to have been a great president. He continues to be a respective global leader and speaker. He would be an asset to the country as the First Man beside Hillary Clinton.  
con_7_1	Bill Clinton would wrongly act as a co-president along side Hilary Clinton.	Bill Clinton would wrongly act as a co-president along side Hilary Clinton. As a former president, Bill Clinton would have a tendency to attempt to assert himself into the decision-making process if Hillary were elected. This could be disruptive to the chain of command if not simply inappropriate.
con_7_2	The Clinton family drama should not be in the oval office again.	The Clinton family drama should not be in the oval office again. The Clinton family drama was traumatizing to the country during Bill Clinton's administration. It does not make sense to subject the country to this drama once again. It should a concerns that additional controversies will arise and little trust should be placed in the Clinton family, given their history, to avoid subjecting the country to another similar controversy. 
headline_8	In the world: Which candidate would be best for the world?
pro_8_1	Obama's inexperience could lead to ill-advised global policies.	Obama's inexperience could lead to ill-advised global policies. Obama is sometimes compared to John F. Kennedy. But, it should be remembered that Kennedy's inexperience led, in party, to his decision to invade Cuba in the Bay of Pigs fiasco. Obama's inexperience may carry with it similar poor decision and associated costs to the world.
pro_8_2	A female president would be appropriately empathetic in her foreign policy.	A female president would be appropriately empathetic in her foreign policy. A female president would be appropriately empathetic in her considerations of other countries interests. She would respect the interests of all parties on the world stage, helping resolve conflicts by bringing people together around areas of common interests. 
con_8_1	Obama's African decent will win valuable points in the Muslim world.	Obama's African decent will win valuable points in the Muslim world. Obama's African decent may be a useful way to win the hearts and minds of individuals in the Middle East. This is highly important to the United States in its current struggles in the Middle East and in the War on Terror. That a man of Muslim-Kenyan origins is running for President makes a strong statement to the Middle East about a number of things. First, it viscerally demonstrates that the United States is not a "White Christian nation on a crusade against the Islamic world". Second, it demonstrates that, in America and a democracy, opportunity for any individual of any creed abounds. 
headline_9	Health care: Which candidate's health care plan is superior?
pro_9_1	Clinton's health care plan is truly universal.	Clinton's health care plan is truly universal. Clinton's health care plan would cover all individuals. It would help cover all 30 million uninsured Americans currently, whereas Obama's plan would only cover 15 million. If universal health care is the objective, Hillary Clinton's plan succeeds while Obama's would fall short.
pro_9_2	Democrats shouldn't compromise on universal health care.	Democrats shouldn't compromise on universal health care. Universal health care is an important, principled cause. Democrats should stick to it without compromising their values simply as a means to appease Republicans and achieve a compromise deal.  
con_9_1	Obama's health care plan is more achievable compared to Hillary's plan.	Obama's health care plan is more achievable compared to Hillary's plan. Achieving truly universal health care is not really possible in today's political environment. Republicans will certainly oppose Clinton's ambitious "socialized medicine" plan. Because Obama's plan is less dramatic and, therefore, less "socialist", it is more likely to win the support of swing-voting Republican members of Congress.  
con_9_2	Hillary's universal health care plan is too expensive.	Hillary's universal health care plan is too expensive. Clinton's universal health care plan is, indeed, more comprehensive than Obama's. But, that's the problem. By covering 30 million uninsured instead of 15 million, Clinton's health care plan is set to be extremely expensive; roughly twice as expensive as Obama's plan. This is not possible with current US budgets and deficits.
con_9_3	Hillary's health care plan has unenforceable, unpolitical mandates.	Hillary's health care plan has unenforceable, unpolitical mandates. Hillary's health care plan mandates that all uninsured citizens buy health care. Many cannot afford to do so and so won't. The problem surrounds what you do at that stage. Do you then, as Obama critically asks, punish these individuals by, for instance, garnishing their wages? This would be highly contentious, as it is in Massachusetts, and unpolitical. 
headline_10	Iraq war vote: Was Clinton wrong to vote for the Iraq war and Obama right?
pro_10_1	Clinton's vote in the Iraq War was justifiable or at least excusable.	Clinton's vote in the Iraq War was justifiable or at least excusable. There were many factors surrounding Clinton's vote in the Senate that gave the Authorization for the Use of Military Force. First, at the time, there were many intelligence reports indicating that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction, and was not Clinton's place to object to these reports. Second, the AUMF vote was not intended to be a direct authorization for war, but rather gave the president the flexibility merely to make that threat for, some felt, diplomatic ends. Third, the majority of Americans and the vast majority of Senators supported going to war. Clinton's vote was not detached from the conventional wisdom of the time. Finally, it is possible that the war could have been conducted successfully; Clinton should not be blamed for the post-invasion failures of the Bush administration.     
con_10_1	Obama opposed the Iraq war form the start.	Obama opposed the Iraq war form the start. Obama has opposed the Iraq War from the start. At the time, he was running to become an Illinois Senator. This means that his public opposition to the war had political implications. In fact, since the majority of the American public was in favor of the war at the time, his opposition was politically risky.
