title	Rehabilitation vs retribution
question	Should the justice system focus on rehabilitation over retribution?
headline_1	Is rehabilitation a more just objective than retribution?
pro_1_1	Rehabilitation is the more humanizing and dignified objective.	Rehabilitation is the more humanizing and dignified objective. It is the most valuable ideological justification for punishment, for it alone promotes the humanizing belief in the notion that offenders can be saved and not simply punished. The rehabilitative ideal alone conveys the message that the state has an obligation to help those who fall short of the standards of behavior it has set. These people are often those with the greatest social disadvantages that have constrained them to a life in crime in the first place. 
pro_1_2	Punishment for punishment's sake (desert) is wrong in a decent society.	Punishment for punishment's sake (desert) is wrong in a decent society. Desert (retributive) theory, on the other hand, sees punishment as an end in itself, in other words, punishment for punishment’s sake. This has no place in any enlightened society. 
pro_1_3	Retributive justice replaces the interests of society with ideology.	Retributive justice replaces the interests of society with ideology. Rehabilitative ideal does not ignore society and the victim. In fact it is because it places such great value on their rights that it tries so hard to change the offender and prevent his re-offending. By seeking to reducing re-offending and to reduce crime, it seeks constructively to promote society’s right to safety, and to protect individuals from the victimization of crime.
con_1_1	Punishment signals clearly that certain conduct is wrong.	Punishment signals clearly that certain conduct is wrong. The purpose of punishment is to show disapproval for the offender’s wrongdoing, and to clearly condemn his criminal actions. This is why we punish; we punish to censure (retribution), we do not punish merely to help a person change for the better (rehabilitation). We still have to punish a robber or a murderer, even if he is truly sorry and even if he would really, really never offend again and even if we could somehow tell that for certain. This is because justice, and not rehabilitation, makes sense as the justification for punishment. Why is justice and censure (‘retribution’) so important? Because unless the criminal justice system responds to persons who have violated society’s rules by communicating, through punishment, the censure of that offending conduct, the system will fail to show society that it takes its own rules (and the breach of them) seriously. 
con_1_2	Punishment acknowledges to victims that they have been wronged.	Punishment acknowledges to victims that they have been wronged. Punishment, in other words, may be justified by the aim of achieving ‘justice’ and ‘desert’, and not by the aim of rehabilitation.
headline_2	Does rehabilitative justice better account for circumstances of offender?
pro_2_1	Rehabilitation acknowledges the reality of social inequity.	Rehabilitation acknowledges the reality of social inequity. To say that some offenders need help to be rehabilitated is to accept the idea that circumstances can constrain, if not compel, and lead to criminality; it admits that we can help unfortunate persons who have been overcome by their circumstance. It rejects the idea that individuals, regardless of their position in the social order, exercise equal freedom in deciding whether to commit a crime, and should be punished equally according to their offense, irrespective of their social backgrounds. Policies that ignore these realities foster hardships that will fall primarily and disproportionately on the already disadvantaged, and deepen the resentment that many inmates find difficult to suppress upon their release back into such a society.
con_2_1	Crime is not a product of circumstances; punishment fosters accountability.	Crime is not a product of circumstances; punishment fosters accountability. Crime is not pathology, it is not the product of circumstance, and it is certainly not the product of coincidence. It is the result of choices made by the individual, and therefore the justice system must condemn those choices when they violate society’s rules. To say otherwise (i.e. to say that criminals are merely the product of their unfortunate circumstances) would be an insult to ideas of free will, human autonomy and individual choice – it would be to deny the possibility of human actors making good decisions in the face of hardship. Retribution alone best recognizes the offender’s status as a moral agent, by asking that he take responsibility for what he has done, rather than to make excuses for it. It appeals to an inherent sense of right and wrong, and in this way is the most respectful to humanity because it recognizes that persons are indeed fundamentally capable of moral deliberation, no matter what their personal circumstances are.
headline_3	Which is a better basis for determining sentencing?
headline_4	Does rehabilitation actually work?
pro_4_1	Studies show rehabilitation programs are effective.	Studies show rehabilitation programs are effective. If we could find a medicine that would ‘cure’ some offenders so they would never offend again, would we really not want it? Even if it only worked for some people, is that not still worthwhile? It is no different with rehabilitative programs – we should certainly support them if they can be shown to work. And indeed, the most recent studies show that they do. Such programs include cognitive-behavioral programs (say, trying to get a violent offender to think and react differently to potential ‘trigger’ situations), pro-social modeling programs, and some sex-offender treatment programs. The most credible research (done by a technique called meta-analysis) demonstrates that the net effect of treatment is, on average, a positive reduction of overall recidivism (re-offending) rates of between 10% and 12%, which would promote a reduction in crime.
pro_4_2	Prison as punishment does not effectively deter criminals.	Prison as punishment does not effectively deter criminals. Stuart Henry, Ph.D.., Professor and Chair of Interdisciplinary Studies, College of Urban, Labor and Metropolitan Affairs, Wayne State University. "On the Effectiveness of Prison as Punishment". Paper presented at the Conference: Incarceration Nation: The Warehousing of America’s Poor. October 24, 2003: "One might conclude that those incarcerated are less likely to be rational, cost-benefit calculators. Indeed, a look at incarcerated offenders criminal history supports exactly this point. Data shows that the national re-arrest rate is 63%, although can be as high as 84% for juveniles, but that 76% of the state prison population has a previous criminal history of prior convictions. The data for 1997 shows that almost half of those with prior convictions are for violent offenses. Importantly, 59% of recidivists have more than two previous convictions and 43% have more than 3 convictions. Clearly, the threat of prison as punishment did not work for the majority of these offenders. This picture of the deterrence effect of prison as punishment is further undermined when examining the kinds of crimes that those in state prison have committed." 
con_4_1	Rehabilition programs are not reliable enough.	Rehabilition programs are not reliable enough. While some rehabilitative programs work with some offenders (those who would probably change by themselves anyway), most do not. Many programs cannot overcome, or even appreciably reduce, the powerful tendency for offenders to continue in criminal behavior. They simply do not work. ‘Rehabilitation’ is therefore a false promise – and the danger with such an illusory and impossible goal is that it is used as a front to justify keeping offenders locked up for longer than they deserve and sometimes even indefinitely (‘if we keep him here longer maybe he might change’). We cannot justify passing any heavier or more onerous a sentence on a person in the name of “rehabilitation” if “rehabilitation” does not work. 
con_4_2	It is too hard to tell if rehabilitation has worked.	It is too hard to tell if rehabilitation has "worked." The question “does it work?” must be joined by a second question: “even if it does work, how can you tell, with each individual offender, when it has worked?” This provides further problems with subscribing to the rehabilitative ideal, argued below.
