title	Multiculturalism vs. assimilation
question	Is multiculturalism a better social model than assimilation?
headline_1	Cultural standards: Does assimilation set a false moral-cultural standard?
pro_1_1	It is impossible to pick a single moral-cultural standard in the assimilation model.	It is impossible to pick a single moral-cultural standard in the assimilation model. While there are some very basic, unifying principles and values that can and should be adopted universally, it is impossible for a government to select a single, broad-sweeping, moral-cultural standard. Indeed, many cultural values are subjective and relative, and should not be discriminated against in favor of what a government deems to be a superior, unifying model. Whose to judge right and wrong, in particular, regarding cultural matters? At a minimum, governments risk expanding their regulatory authority too far, past the area in which we can all agree on unifying principles and into the realm where there is no "right and wrong", but only subjective cultural distinctions. Assimilation inherently carries these risks of inappropriate government interference.
pro_1_2	Assimilation wrongly bans practices due to rare abuses	 Assimilation wrongly bans practices due to rare abuses A major argument used for assimilation posits that it is wrong to allow practices such as veiling (typically in Muslim cultures) because it may be subject to abuse, in which women are involuntarily forced to wear the hijab. This does occur. But, there are also many instances in which women make an independent choice to wear the hijab as an "act of faith" or for other reasons. Should voluntary instances be forbidden along with involuntary instances? No. It is wrong to ban the wearing of the hijab in all instances, merely to prevent instances of abuse.   
pro_1_3	Multiculturalism may also utilize the term tolerance, but it could easily be suggested the appropriate term is more likely respect.	Multiculturalism may also utilize the term tolerance, but it could easily be suggested the appropriate term is more likely respect. On the other hand, assimilation would reject the notion of respect for ones cultural or ethnic identity. Any coexistence is "tolerated" with the expectation of assimilation in to the mainstream. The problem with tolerance versus respect is more than symantics. Tolerance retains the social hierarchy and contends the lesser group will be accepted, but still recognized for their place in the hierarchy. Some quotations on this include:
con_1_1	Some cultures don't warrant protection under multiculturalism	 Some cultures don't warrant protection under multiculturalism Some cultures should not be accepted due to their beliefs. One can argue that cultures are not equal and thus do not earn equal rights in society. For example, barbaric cultures that believe that "honour killings" and female circumcision are justifiable should not be given the same rights as those cultures which are very similar to the laws of that nation. Sharia Law has many questionable and quite frankly prehistoric beliefs that we should not be eager to accept. The mixing of cultures ultimately picks up both the good and bad points and society would in fact be worse off with this culture. Thus social cohesion would be hindered.
con_1_2	The pretense that it is just my culture can justify almost anything	The pretense that "it is just my culture" can justify almost anything In an extremely politically correct time people feel that any comments against another cultures and their doctrines is immediately being racist. This is certainly not the case. 
con_1_3	Assimilation does not mean abandoning cultural distinctions	 Assimilation does not mean abandoning cultural distinctions Assimilation is often falsely characterized as the melting of cultural uniqueness into a single cultural identity. In fact, assimilation need not have anything to do with culture; that would be acculturation. A conservative approach to assimilation would see only a lack of legal and governmental distinctions between groups and might uphold a single national language, for example. It would attempt to foster a common set of economic standards and skills that would enable all citizens to take advantage of all the opportunities available to them. But, it need not force cultural changes upon anyone. While acculturation often does accompany assimilation, it is important not to confuse the two.
con_1_4	Why go to live in a country if you do not accept its principles	Why go to live in a country if you do not accept its principles? The answer is you shouldn't. If you are willing to take the resources of that country away from the natives and have an increased standard of living then you should also be willing to accept the culture. If not you should not "sponge" off of the state if you do not agree with it's overarching principles.
con_1_5	Multiculturalism does entail the loss of culture; that of the host country:	Multiculturalism does entail the loss of culture; that of the host country: While multiculturalism does attempt to protect the cultures of immigrants, by doing so, it diminishes the culture of the host country. Add a new culture into society and another culture loses out, finding less space to express and exercise itself. And, the cultures that lose out from the entry of new immigrant cultures may be historically-rooted and nationally-honored cultures. Therefore, multiculturalism has its cultural costs, just as assimilation has its costs. But, the distinction is that assimilation better protects a host country's historical culture, while multiculturalism better protects new-entrant cultures. If historically-rooted cultures are seen as more important to protect, than the assimilation model may have greater cultural preservation value. 
headline_2	Rights: Which system better protects individual rights and counters discrimination?
pro_2_1	Protecting group rights is often necessary in protecting individual rights	Protecting group rights is often necessary in protecting individual rights. Many minority groups are systemically disenfranchised, discriminated against, or simply disadvantaged. Recognizing them as groups is an important first step in recognizing these systemic problems, taking steps to compensate for them, and in leveling the playing feel so that all individuals have equal opportunity and equal rights. This need not have anything to do with culture. It can focus entirely on past abuses of groups, and encourage steps to be taken to ensure that these groups the the rights of the individuals within them are sufficiently protected.
pro_2_2	Multiculturalism improves the public sense of free speech.	Multiculturalism improves the public sense of free speech. Assimilation, at its heart, upholds a set of moral, cultural, and national standards that are considered acceptable. Deviations from these standards are not fully tolerated and sometimes outright suppressed. While this can be justified in some circumstances, on constant issue is that it creates a feeling that unique expression is frowned upon. This can negatively affect people's feelings of a right to free speech.
pro_2_3	Multiculturalism is democratic	Multiculturalism is democratic Democracy is built upon the notion that individuals may hold different beliefs and that they have the right to do so. In a democratic election, there is usually a more conservative group competing with a more liberal group; in the United States, this would be the Republicans versus the Democrats. Democracies are built upon individuals and groups believing different things, but coexisting. Similarly, a multicultural society acknowledges, respects, and even cherishes differences between groups. Realistically, societies are pluralistic. Because of its parallel with democracy, multiculturalism seems to be a more suitable and appropriate framework for a democratic society.
pro_2_4	Concerns over women's rights cannot be blamed on multiculturalism	Concerns over women's rights cannot be blamed on multiculturalism Multiculturalism does not simply allow women's rights or human rights abuses to occur. Problems of inequality occur in many ethnic communities, including Muslims and Christians, and even Atheists. While this may be the obligation of wearing a veil in one religion, it may be the inability to become a priest in another religion, or even unequal pay in the workforce, a place where religion has not really a factor. 
pro_2_5	It is misleading to claim multiculturalism sacrifices individual right to group rights	It is misleading to claim multiculturalism sacrifices individual right to group rights Every society has a culture and often more than one culture; that is a nation always has subcultures. The issue is not group rights being sacrificed to individual rights, but assimilation often consists of one dominating group's rights taking precedence over all other group rights. In American history, up until the 1960s, white American rights were more valuable than the rights of non-whites. In some areas of life, this still occurs. In America today, the rights of men are literally more valuable in some cases, than the rights of women, doing the exact same work. What multiculturalism does is safeguard the at times tyrannical dominance of one group over all others, forcing others to comply to their standards. 
pro_2_6	Recognition of indigenous, ethnic, and otherwise different (religious, linguistic) groups is necessary to combat the assimilationist hierarchy of cultures	Recognition of indigenous, ethnic, and otherwise different (religious, linguistic) groups is necessary to combat the assimilationist hierarchy of cultures Throughout the last few centuries, certain nations/cultures viewed themselves as superior to other cultures, including the indigenous people of just about every non-European country. Indigenous people were regarded as savages. This sense of having a better culture than others who are different is a part of assimilationist doctrine. Traditionally, the view has been that there are certain civilized nations and other uncivilized ones. Ruling military units attacked or committed acts of genocide on indigenous and ethnic populations. Assimilation has had a terrifying track record, a history built upon either erasing cultures, beliefs, and languages, or, at times, an entire people or segment of a population. 
pro_2_7	Bias towards the civilized west.	Bias towards the "civilized" west. Traditionally, the west regarded itself as civilized, even going so far as to trace the origins of civilization to ancient Greece, when other ancient civilizations existed alongside or before the Greeks. This western-centric idea of civilization carries over into contemporary notions of western culture being civilized and thus better than the uncivilized brutes from non-western nations or the indigenous from western nations. Assimilation often signals an ungrounded fear of different ethnic and indigenous groups, with the desperate  plea to make everyone the same and thus less threatening -- regardless of how ungrounded and illogical this sense of threat is.
con_2_1	Multiculturalism sacrifices individual rights to group rights	 Multiculturalism sacrifices individual rights to group rights Multiculturalism, in many instances, provides groups with, essentially, its own category of laws and rights, distinct from those applied to other individuals. This undermines the notion of universal individual rights, and is likely to lead to serious problems with legal consistency.
con_2_2	Multiculturalism and accommodation jeopardizes women's rights	 Multiculturalism and accommodation jeopardizes women's rights This is of particularly, well-covered concern in regard to the Muslim community. Is it acceptable to tolerate a culture that demands that women wear the Hijab, a veil that conceils their faces because it presumes that they will tempt sexually unconstrainable men? No. Such a cultural practice violates the individual rights of women.
con_2_3	Assimilating cultures is unrelated to race and racism	 Assimilating cultures is unrelated to race and racism Assimilating people into the culture and values of a nation has nothing to do with race. Moral and cultural standards need not have anything to do with race. So, to equate assimilation with racism is to make a false connection. 
con_2_4	Multiculturalism does not help empower minority groups	 Multiculturalism does not help empower minority groups Why would state recognition of indigenous groups and differences between them necessarily empower these different groups? Might it actually alienate them? Might it weaken them by bringing to the surface historical grievances and pain? Might it create tension and conflict that further weakens them? While it is certainly possible that multiculturalism can better enable a minority group to communicate with its government, it is unclear if it is worth it as compared with these other costs, and if it is then, ultimately, empowering for these groups.
con_2_5	Multiculturalism politicizes identity in ethnic and religious terms	 Multiculturalism politicizes identity in ethnic and religious terms The politicization of identity has many pitfalls. It risks broad groupings of individuals, and the extension of certain rights to some individuals that don't deserve it. By giving unjustified legal favor to such individuals, multiculturalism threatens unjustifiably impeding on the rights of "ordinary citizens" that are now put at a disadvantage or whom are forced to help compensate in some way the individuals of the minority group.
headline_3	National cohesion: Does multiculturalism better encourage social cohesion and unity?
pro_3_1	Multiculturalism promotes tolerance and social cohesion.	Multiculturalism promotes tolerance and social cohesion. The final objective of multiculturalism is to create a harmonious, strong, integrated, and cohesive society. This is really not different than the assimilation model, but it simply has a different view of how to get there. Social strength, multiculturalism posits, is based on tolerance and understanding between differing groups. From tolerance and understanding flow respect, compassion, and a desire to integrate with an interesting mosaic of unique groups. Tolerant engagement across groups creates a high level of social cohesion necessary to productive and succusfull nations.
pro_3_2	Diversity from multiculturalism is socially important.	Diversity from multiculturalism is socially important. Diversity has many benefits. On the most general level, we learn from each other's differences. Secondly, it enables us to form a broader view of the world, which is socially valuable from the standpoint that a broad world-view is generally important.
pro_3_3	The unity of society that assimilation talks about can be found through multiculturalism.	The unity of society that assimilation talks about can be found through multiculturalism. If we respect someone elses culture then they will obviously accept ours. This is like the golden rule; treat others as you would like to be treated. Accepting their culture will mean acceptance of ours and generally unity is created through this appreciation. Many nations have arguably been multicultural since their foundation depending on how one defines multiculturalism. Someone will always be from a different area and thus of a different culture. 
pro_3_4	Multiculturalism and diversity are more interesting and stimulating.	Multiculturalism and diversity are more interesting and stimulating. Canadian children are sometimes taught, regarding Canada's multicultural policies and state, "Canada is like a tossed salad - lots of colours, languages and foods make us really tasty".[3] Indeed, a multicultural society is more interesting, as it causes us as humans to deal with different people, interpret these difference, understand them, and even appreciate and adopt elements that we like. It creates more opportunities for experiencing what is unfamiliar, and this is stimulating and beneficial to individual and social health. 
pro_3_5	Multiculturalism is like cohesive ethnic federalism	 Multiculturalism is like cohesive ethnic federalism Peter D. Salins. "Assimilation, American Style". Reason Online. February 1997 - "Ethnic federalism explicitly rejects the notion of a transcendent American identity, the old idea that out of ethnic diversity there would emerge a single, culturally unified people. Instead, the United States is to be viewed as a vast ethnic federation--Canada's Anglo-French arrangement, raised to the nth power. Viewing ethnic Americans as members of a federation rather than a union, ethnic federalism, a.k.a. multiculturalism, asserts that ethnic Americans have the right to proportional representation in matters of power and privilege, the right to demand that their 'native' culture and putative ethnic ancestors be accorded recognition and respect, and the right to function in their 'native' language (even if it is not the language of their birth or they never learned to speak it), not just at home but in the public realm."
pro_3_6	Assimilation and cultural unity is impossible to achieve	 Assimilation and cultural unity is impossible to achieve It is impossible to get people to adopt a unifying cultural standard in assimilation. People will not easily shed their past cultural heritage. And, even if people were willing to do this, they are not likely to adopt a single unifying cultural, values model. Humans have an inherent desire to stand out with distinction. This will always limit any attempt to assimilate a people.  
pro_3_7	Some nations find identity and pride in multicultural policies	 Some nations find identity and pride in multicultural policies In Canada, for example, there is an appreciation for the distinctiveness that their multicultural policies bring to their national identity. Canadians bring attention to the fact that their policies stand in stark contrast to the assimilation policies of the United States. Such a sense of national distinctiveness can be good for national cohesion and health.   
pro_3_8	Multiculturalism calls for a mosaic rather than a melting pot	 Multiculturalism calls for a "mosaic" rather than a "melting pot" The metaphors used in this debate are important. The assimilation model is often referred to with the "melting pot" metaphor. The multiculturalism model is sometimes referred to with the "mosaic" metaphor. One should ask, do we really want to be "melting" each other's unique cultural heritages into a consistent cultural stew? Is the American mass-culture homogeneity desirable? It seems that a "mosaic" of diverse cultural representations is more interesting, tasteful, and even beautiful. 
con_3_1	Multiculturalism highlights differences and can increase hate crimes.	Multiculturalism highlights differences and can increase hate crimes. If racial groups do not assimilate into an idea of central unity then the natives will have resentment against them. In particular, if the "discrete social differences" mentioned in the introduction become more apparent for instance in light of a terrorist attack then racial hate crimes become more frequent. This happens to such an extent that it becomes dangerous for the immigrant to be a part of the nation. Take as an example the 300% rise in racial hate crimes in London alone after the 7/7 bombings. The 7/7 bombings clearly showed a difference between Muslims who had not integrated (those who still wore typical dress) and the white Britons. Although it was only a minority who committed such appalling acts, the feeling of detachment and resentment toward this particular racial group made the social cohesion uneasy and awkward.
con_3_2	Multicultural states are typically unsuccessful.	Multicultural states are typically unsuccessful. Having to do with problems of social cohesion, conflict, and even violence, multicultural states are typically less successful than states that adopt an assimilation model. The historical evidence seems to support this conclusion, and adds empirical credence to the idea that multiculturalism is damaging to a state. As a national model for success, therefore, multiculturalism seems to fail the test. And, since the success of the international community and economy depends on successful states, multiculturalism can also be considered potentially damaging to the international system.  
con_3_3	Multiculturalism can damage social capital and cohesion	 Multiculturalism can damage social capital and cohesion Some empirical studies by such acclaimed scholars as Robert Putnam conclude that the historical record shows multiculturalism to have failed in producing successful, cohesive, long-lasting states. The primary problem is that it diminishes what is called "social capital". That is, the groupings and divisions caused by multiculturalism separate groups from each other and reduce trust, diminishing such things as civic engagement and community involvement. A cycle of distrust disrupts community and societal cohesiveness and productivity. At least, these are the presumable explanations deduced from the empirical evidence that indicates that multicultural societies are less successful overall.
con_3_4	Assimilation promotes national unity	 Assimilation promotes national unity. Surely the best form of social cohesion is unity. If a nation is divided amongst several different cultures with no clear feeling of patriotism then country is in essence socially fractured. Assimilating into society means that you both accept the society you are living in and agree with its laws and principles. This is far better in the long run for the country especially when the nation is at war. If the nation is divided between those who would rather the other side won, for instance, then morale will go down. Similarly this idea of unity will make people feel more at ease with other cultures and accepting of their values IF they have fully accepted the country of the host nation.
con_3_5	Multiculturalism encourages damaging claims to victimhood	 Multiculturalism encourages damaging claims to victimhood Multiculturalism largely categorized groups along ethnic and religious terms. These groups often have common histories of suffering. And, there categorization often brings to the fore this common history of suffering, and fosters the opportunity to re-assess these sufferings and even opportunities for compensation. This creates an incentive for exaggerating past sufferings and grievances, which flares old wounds, resentments, and hatreds. This is unhealthy for a society and can lead to increased instances of violence between groups.
con_3_6	Multiculturalism can lead to class conflict	Multiculturalism can lead to class conflict Among the various distinctions created in the multiculturalism model are class distinctions. Creating such clear distinctions creates an atmosphere of "us against them", which is particularly virulent when applied to socio-economic status.
headline_4	Security: Is multiculturalism better for the safety and security of a nation?
pro_4_1	Multiculturalism can help separate conflicting groups.	Multiculturalism can help separate conflicting groups. In Britain, multiculturalism emerged as a means to manage conflicts between competing groups in the country. It was, in a sense, a way to separate groups that had long histories of fighting into their own neighborhoods. The effect of this ad hoc multiculturalism was a reduction in tension and instances of ethnic and religious violence. Assimilation, conversely, is frequently seen as producing spates of violence. One of the most notable examples is the 2005 riots in France, which many blame on France's assimilation policies.
pro_4_2	Multiculturalism's tolerance is a better principle than assimilation's exclusivity.	Multiculturalism's tolerance is a better principle than assimilation's exclusivity. Discrimination against any culture produces racial hatred and a lack of respect and tolerance for those who discriminated. So, what is better for the safety of the people? Accepting all cultures and thus not angering those cultures who may act upon anger or simply refusing some cultures and setting oneself up as a target? It seems the former. 
pro_4_3	If some aspects of multiculturalism are bad, they can be changed.	If some aspects of multiculturalism are bad, they can be changed. Multiculturalism admits that it is a relatively new poltically coined phrase which allows politicians to seem fair and accepting of internationalism. Therefore less favourable aspects can be changed, for example the reluctance to act on fear of being labelled a racist, simply with government policy or precedents set. Just because one part of the philosophy is bad it does not mean that all the beneficial aspects should be jeopordized. All political theories contain a weakness and as far back as Herodotus, Thucydides and Polybius these were analysed in great deal as a result of human nature.
con_4_1	Multiculturalism highlights differences and can increase hate crimes.	Multiculturalism highlights differences and can increase hate crimes. If racial groups do not assimilate into an idea of central unity then the natives will have resentment against them. In particular, if the "discrete social differences" mentioned in the introduction become more apparent for instance in light of a terrorist attack then racial hate crimes become more frequent. This happens to such an extent that it becomes dangerous for the immigrant to be a part of the nation. Take as an example the 300% rise in racial hate crimes in London alone after the 7/7 bombings. The 7/7 bombings clearly showed a difference between Muslims who had not integrated (those who still wore typical dress) and the white Britons. Although it was only a minority who committed such appalling acts, the feeling of detachment and resentment toward this particular racial group made the social cohesion uneasy and awkward.
con_4_2	Multiculturalism can constrain police with a fear racism charges.	Multiculturalism can constrain police with a fear racism charges. The 7/7 bombings of London was arguably the result of certain "cells" in society that, although obviously wrong, were not banned, due in part to a fear among police and leaders of being seen as intolerant and going against multiculturalism. 
con_4_3	Sweden's multiculturalism has resulted in violence and instability	 Sweden's multiculturalism has resulted in violence and instability Sweden has adopted a multiculturalism model, and has simultaneously seen a rise in its Muslim population. It has also seen a marked level of violence between Muslims and native swedes, with many scholars attributing this to the clear distinctions that arise between these groups under the Multiculturalism model.
headline_5	Economics: Is multiculturalism better than assimilation economically?
pro_5_1	Multiculturalism is beneficial in the business world	 Multiculturalism is beneficial in the business world The very basic point here is that diversity of view-points is essential to dynamism in the business world. Because multiculturalism fosters a greater diversity, it better enables a diversity of perspectives and dynamism in the business world.
pro_5_2	Multiculturalism is economically beneficial to immigrants.	Multiculturalism is economically beneficial to immigrants. When a migrant comes to this country their living standards increase by an average 300% according to George Borjas, one of America's leading experts on migration. A country should set a precedent and act in an internationalist way. You are improving someones living standards and providing your own do not drop then it is beneficial. Improving the living standards of a migrant will also help social cohesion. In theory, if the migrant prefers the new standards of living they are unlikely to wage war against the host nation and hence terrorism is made less likely. 
pro_5_3	Multiculturalism encourages immigration and the resulting economic stimulus	Multiculturalism encourages immigration and the resulting economic stimulus. Taken in the most basic form that multiculturalism, because it encourages diversity encourages people to move to a nation, multiculturalism can be seen to be economically beneficial whereas assimilation cannot due to the deterrance of immigrants. A immigrant brings both different skills and ideas to a workplace. Similarly, the type of immigrant is usually at a good working age and hence entrepreneurial skills are brought to the country. Moreover, immigrants usually get more children which also leads to increasing figures of the working population. More people generally fill the labour gaps and people will be working so GDP will increase along with living standards. 
con_5_1	Multiculturalism calls for distracting and costly accommodations to foreign students.	Multiculturalism calls for distracting and costly accommodations to foreign students. A good case study of this is Polish children in Britain who do not speak English, and where translations into polish are becoming necessary. "Job Description We at Cheshire Education Professionals are looking for a Polish speaking Teaching assistant. Due to an increasing demand for teaching assistants who speak Polish, we are currently recruiting for supply staff in the Cheshire area to support Polish speaking pupils in schools. You will need to have worked in a Primary and/or secondary school before and will ideally have some knowledge of the UK national curriculum. " From [4] This job description hints at the problems of the British teaching system. The influx of Polish immigrants, many of whom do not speak English, has caused many primary school teachers to translate the lessons into Polish to help the students. Surely this is an example of the welfare state gone too far! Think of the detriment to the other school children. 
con_5_2	Assimilation can provide indigenous peoples with skills to succeed	 Assimilation can provide indigenous peoples with skills to succeed One primary problem for indigenous peoples is that they lack the basic, mainstream skills required to succeed in the societies in which they live. Assimilation helps them achieve these basic language, cultural, etiquette, and working-environment skills that enable them to compete in the working environment and succeed. Multiculturalism, conversely, would allow indigenous groups to exist in isolation, where they would not acquire these skills, and where the would be incapable of progressing socio-economically.
headline_6	Feasibility: Which model is more feasible, multiculturalism or assimilation?
pro_6_1	Assimilation unrealistically expects immigrants to shed their cultural heritage	Assimilation unrealistically expects immigrants to shed their cultural heritage It is often expected, in the assimilation model, that recent immigrants to a country will shed major parts of their cultures and values to adapt to those of the host country. But, this is unrealistic. Nobody will quickly shed and adopt the new cultural elements of a nation; a major flaw of the assimilation model. 
pro_6_2	Illegal aliens are not in a position to assimilate	 Illegal aliens are not in a position to assimilate Illegal aliens exist in the shadows of a country. They are not willing or able to engage in a society's common culture in a way demanded by the assimilation model. It is, therefore, nearly impossible to assimilate illegal immigrants. This is particularly problematic in a country with a large illegal immigrant population, such as the United States. 
pro_6_3	It is misleading to claim America is a prime example of assimilation	It is misleading to claim America is a prime example of assimilation. Despite the image of America as a great melting pot, that is not really the case. America is a land of many cultures, where important and sustained cultural divisions between Americans persist. Assimilationist doctrine claims it is working towards a sense of one Americaness, but there are two problems with this notion. One, America is a land built on democratic difference -- different political groups can and do exist. Two, American assimilation has had a troubling history consisting of a dominating, white power structure aiming to restrict extending American citizen to all citizens, and denying human rights to all citizens (often because of race or skin colour). 
con_6_1	Multiculturalism can cause the false mashing of identities	Multiculturalism can cause the false mashing of identities Multiculturalism can create problems for various groups that do not fit neatly into the provided categories. In the UK, for example, individuals from the Middle East, but whom are not Muslim, may nevertheless be grouped into this category. This is wrong in principle, creates false distinctions and polarizations, and can create tensions where there were none before.
con_6_2	America demonstrates that assimilation can succeed.	America demonstrates that assimilation can succeed. America is known as a nation that has adopted, essentially, an assimilation model. And, it is, one of the most successful societies and economies in the world. It enjoys relative peace, cohesion, and civic engagement among its various groups. Such a compelling empirical example of assimilation is hard to compete with.
headline_7	Public opinion: Do publics favor multiculturalism over assimilation?
pro_7_1	Publics favor maintaining unique cultural heritages and multiculturalism	 Publics favor maintaining unique cultural heritages and multiculturalism Various studies and survey in the United States and Europe found that there is a general public desire to maintain unique cultural heritages within society, which provides general support for the notion of a multicultural society over assimilation. 
con_7_1	The public favors assimilation.	The public favors assimilation. With national holidays, nations sending and supporting teams at the Olympics, and national pride, people support national assimilation.
headline_8	Videos: Videos pro and con in this debate
pro_8_1	India's Pluralism and the Benefits from it:	India's Pluralism and the Benefits from it:
con_8_1	Multiculturalism has gone too far in Britain:	Multiculturalism has gone too far in Britain:
