title	Dollarization
question	Should countries change their official currency to the U.S. dollar?
headline_1	Growth: Does dollarization improve economic growth?
pro_1_1	Dollarization has historically improved economic growth	Dollarization has historically improved economic growth Dollarized countries have been able to stabilize their economies and promote economic growth. Better integration into theinternational financial system and higher credibility among foreign investors, all have been effects of the dollarization policy.Cheaper international borrowing has lowered mortgage rates, spurred consumer credit and increased household consumption all leading to higher rates of economic growth.
pro_1_2	Dollarization increases market access and integration	Dollarization increases market access and integration The monetary union in Europe among EU members has shown that giving up domestic currencies and adopting the Euro has enhanced the financial integration among the member countries
pro_1_3	Dollarization can increase competition, innovation, productivity	Dollarization can increase competition, innovation, productivity Dolarization removes arbitrage within trade.Arbitrage is is the practice of taking advantage of a price differential between two or more markets.When this happens entrepreneurs in the dollarized country are faced with a large array of opportunities on how to better perform within international trade.This will make them focus on improving producion skills, developing niche businesses, invent and increase their competitiveness. Empirical examples from El Salvadaor prove this has been the case post dollarization and it has lead to even more economic growth. 
pro_1_4	Dollarization helps level the playing field.	Dollarization helps "level the playing field".
pro_1_5	Dollarization can help lower borrowing costs	Dollarization can help lower borrowing costs Dollarization provides countries with access to the international financial systems.This competitive environment and the fact that there is no longer a monetary control agency both provide incentives to adopt a responsible borrowing behavior with a focus on repaying debts. This increases the credibility of that country internationally. Consequently they will have easier access to cheaper borrowing once they have  restored their  credibility as a sovereign borrower.
pro_1_6	Dollarization makes sense for nations trading mainly with US	Dollarization makes sense for nations trading mainly with US Dollarization significantly reduces transaction costs and eliminates currency conversion fees. It helps in this way  enhance economic links between the dollarized country and the currency issuer country. From the perspective of the dollarized country , dollarization stabilizes their inflation and improves their credibility internationally.Hence they can extend their trade with the currency issuer country and gain more benefits as the transaction costs are lower. From the perspective of the currency issuer country,the elimination of a currency risk leads to more trust from the consumers in any of the dollarized countries' products. Also the elimination of the currency conversion costs can provide incentives for tourists and business to go and invest in the dollarized country.
pro_1_7	The US often financially supports nations that dollarize.	The US often financially supports nations that dollarize. The United States often offers financial incentives to those countries that dollarize. Nations can benefit economically from such financial support from the United States.
pro_1_8	Dollarization works best for small, interdependent nations	Dollarization works best for small, interdependent nations The example of Ecuador proves that for a small independent country that was undergoing hyperinflation and a high levels of instability in the financial markets was able thanks to dollarization to stabilize inflation and improve its inetrantiona rankings in terms of financial credibility.
pro_1_9	Dollarization helps encourage foreign investment	Dollarization helps encourage foreign investment: The fear of high inflation is a major factor inhibiting investment in developing countries. By dollarizing, these fears can be settled, and investments are likely to flow more freely.[1]
con_1_1	Dollarization does not end the risk of default	Dollarization does not end the risk of default Even when a country dollarizes, the fundamentals of its debt do not change. If it unable to repay its now dollar-denominated debts, it will still have to default.  
con_1_2	Dollarization will not help nations with sound economic policies	Dollarization will not help nations with sound economic policies Countries with sound and stable economic policies do not really need the stabalizing effects of dollarization.
con_1_3	Dollarization is a band-aid approach to poor economic policy	Dollarization is a band-aid approach to poor economic policy Dollarization is frequently considered a solution for countries that have poor economic policies. Yet, this essentially accepts these poor policies, puts a band-aid over them, and shirks the responsibility to improve the fundamentals of a country's monetary policies. Such a band-aid approach is irresponsible, as it denies countries the opportunity to learn from their mistakes and develop sound monetary policies.
con_1_4	Dollarization limits monetary policy flexibility	Dollarization limits monetary policy flexibility It is frequently important for countries to be able to adjust interests rates or the printing of money in order to respond to certain economic conditions, such as recession. But, by dollarizing, a country is forced to follow the monetary policies of the United States Federal Reserve. This puts countries in what is often called a monetary policy "straight jacket", and can make it difficult to respond appropriately to economic conditions and avert such events as recessions.
con_1_5	Dollarization places constraints on US monetary policy	Dollarization places constraints on US monetary policy Particularly as dollarization becomes more widespread, it becomes increasingly important that the United States be vigilant regarding the consequences of its monetary policies for other nations. If a particular US monetary policy adjustment is to have a negative impact on the majority of dollarized nations, for example, it will be more difficult the United States to implement such an adjustment. Such considerations will have a generally constraining impact on US monetary policy.
headline_2	Averting crises: Can dollarization help countries avoid financial crisis?
pro_2_1	Dollarization and integration encourage stability	Dollarization and integration encourage stability Dollarization combined with a financial integration provide the dollarized country with access to the large realm of international funds and liquidity.This means that there can be exchanges of funds between the dollarized country and the currency  issuer country without any risk.This reduces the instability of foreign capital flows and also helps stabilize exchange rates. Ultimately, a more stable financial system in the dollarized country benefits consumers that will have access to internationally competitive international financial institutions.
pro_2_2	Full dollarization can protect countries from currency crises.	Full dollarization can protect countries from currency crises. The Argentine and East Asian crises showed that partially fixed exchange rates expose countries to the risk of sharp falls in the exchange rate when speculators attack. Under dollarization there is no exchange rate to be attacked, so speculators have no role.[2]
pro_2_3	Even unofficial dollarization increases the stability of a country's bank system	Even unofficial dollarization increases the stability of a country's bank system When people are allowed to have bank deposits in foreign currencies, the risk of a devaluation of the domestic currency is lower causing also a lower risk of a bank run(that occurs when depositors all rush to the bank to withdraw their deposits causing the bank to be out of liquidities).
pro_2_4	Dollarization can benefit nations suffering from hyperinflation	Dollarization can benefit nations suffering from hyperinflation Studies have emiprically proved that countries that adopted dollarization when they were undergoing rampant hyperinflation have now been able to control inflation rates and become stable economies.
pro_2_5	Dollarization shows commitment to renouncing currency devaluations	Dollarization shows commitment to renouncing currency devaluations Dollarization has been proven to eliminate the posibility of currency crises. Thourgh the decision to give up one's ability to conduct monetary policy , the dollarized country has no ability to  appreciate or devalue their currency as to have an advantage in international trade. This inability coupled with the stability of the adopted currency mean the dollarized country cannot actually pursue any policy towards currency devaluations.
pro_2_6	Maintaining a national currency can be very costly to citizens	Maintaining a national currency can be very costly to citizens
pro_2_7	Dollarization can reduce the risk of inflation:	Dollarization can reduce the risk of inflation: Governments, especially in developing countries, are very bad at controlling inflation. They always want to increase short term growth at the expense of long term stability. Governments should tie their own hands through dollarization to make their anti-inflation rhetoric credible.[3] 
pro_2_8	Monetary policy is not that important to maintain in the face of dollarization	Monetary policy is not that important to maintain in the face of dollarization Countries are just as likely to abuse it and cause high inflation as they are likely to use it correctly. Developing countries never truly have independent monetary policy anyway, their economies are heavily affected by the United States’ policies even without dollarization, since changes in the US interest rate change demand for their exports.[4]
pro_2_9	Countries currently operating some sort of fixed exchange rate (as many developing countries do) cannot operate as lenders of last resort anyway:	Countries currently operating some sort of fixed exchange rate (as many developing countries do) cannot operate as lenders of last resort anyway: A lack of lender of last resort functions can promote a stronger, healthier banking system, and helps prevent the kind of "crony capitalism" that bedevilled South East Asia. Banks cannot take on risky loans, relying on the central bank to bail them out if necessary.[5]
con_2_1	Currency crises can be better avoided under floating exchange rates.	Currency crises can be better avoided under floating exchange rates. If the government does not try to fix the exchange rate, then the rate will constantly adjust, with gradual falls instead of sharp crises.[6]
con_2_2	Announcing dollarization can cause financial panic	 Announcing dollarization can cause financial panic The announcement that a country is dollarizing often comes a year in advance of the initiation of the process. This can cause fears of a country's economic instability or pending crisis, and can result in such things as capital flight, in which foreign money is rapidly withdrawn from the country.
con_2_3	Overnight dollarization is not feasible	 Overnight dollarization is not feasible While some respond to concerns about financial panic and damage during a long transition period to dollarization with the notion of "overnight dollarization", there are reasons why this cannot be achieved. 
con_2_4	Dollarization limits monetary policy flexibility	Dollarization limits monetary policy flexibility It is frequently important for countries to be able to adjust interests rates or the printing of money in order to respond to certain economic conditions, such as recession. But, by dollarizing, a country is forced to follow the monetary policies of the United States Federal Reserve. This puts countries in what is often called a monetary policy "straight jacket", and can make it difficult to respond appropriately to economic conditions and avert such events as recessions.
con_2_5	Dollarization places constraints on US monetary policy	Dollarization places constraints on US monetary policy Particularly as dollarization becomes more widespread, it becomes increasingly important that the United States be vigilant regarding the consequences of its monetary policies for other nations. If a particular US monetary policy adjustment is to have a negative impact on the majority of dollarized nations, for example, it will be more difficult the United States to implement such an adjustment. Such considerations will have a generally constraining impact on US monetary policy.
con_2_6	Other methods are available to limit inflationary tendencies:	Other methods are available to limit inflationary tendencies: Independent central banks are widely used in the developed world, and can work for developing countries if effort is put in to designing the institutions correctly. It is ridiculous to suggest governments should restrict their own ability to help their economies, just because some governments have sometimes misused this power.[7]
headline_3	Sovereignty: Does dollarization uphold sovereignty and democratic practices?
pro_3_1	High inflation and economic instability have historically led to authoritarian regimes	High inflation and economic instability have historically led to authoritarian regimes  In order for money to perform its role it there is a  “a priori”  need or inflation not to occur. Inflation according to Austrian School Monetarist, Steven Horwitz,  distorts monetary calculation and the ability of money to coordinate people . Out of the need for coordination and order  people will look to  other means or achieving order , more specifically through the political process. His argument is that inflation makes people more likely to desire totalitarian regimes and provides the example of  now the inflationary periods of interwar Germany allowed for  the rise of National Socialism.
pro_3_2	By promoting low inflation and stabilizing the economy dollarization lays the foundation for a market based economy to properly function	By promoting low inflation and stabilizing the economy dollarization lays the foundation for a market based economy to properly function Studies have emiprically proved that countries that adopted dollarization when they were undergoing rampant hyperinflation have now been able to control inflation rates and become stable economies.Stable economies  allow entrepreneurs to specialize more, become more efficient and more competitive and in this way strengthening the prospects of that countries market economy to grow.
pro_3_3	Economic freedom and stability  spur people's demands for a democratic society	Economic freedom and stability  spur people's demands for a democratic society
con_3_1	Dollarization undermines the sovereign symbolism of a national currency	Dollarization undermines the sovereign symbolism of a national currency National currencies are often a powerful part of national identity. Replacing them with a symbol of another country's national identity is often an affront to many citizens and their sense of nationalism and sovereignty.
con_3_2	Dollarization can violate sovereign democratic control	 Dollarization can violate sovereign democratic control It is concerning that a country would give up control of its sovereign monetary policies to the United States. The main problem is that this jeopardizes the democratic influence of a country's population on monetary policy or democratic election of the leaders that control such policies. Dollarization undermines all of these democratic checks. 
con_3_3	Dollarization is difficult where anti-Americanism is pervasive	Dollarization is difficult where anti-Americanism is pervasive Dollarization is a maneuver that sees a significant degree of a country's own image, in its currency, replaced by the image of the United States dollar. In nations where anti-Americanism is high, such a situation is not welcome, could lead to protests and violence, and may have political costs for national leaders that adopt such policies. It may also accentuate anti-Americanism and, subsequently, even terrorism. 
con_3_4	Dollarization is part of US imperialist interests	Dollarization is part of US imperialist interests Dollarization increases the influence and power of the United States and its markets in the world. Moves by the United States to dollarize other countries can be viewed as, in part, a self-interested move to increase the country's economic influence and power. Such economic imperialism should be resisted.
con_3_5	It is too difficult for countries to de-dollarize.	It is too difficult for countries to de-dollarize. Changing currencies is a painstaking process for a country. It is no different when de-dollarizing. But, there are some additional constraints revolving around the effects that such de-dollarization may have on relations with America and even American monetary policy.
headline_4	Legal issues: Does dollarization conform appropriately with contracts and the law?
con_4_1	Dollarization requires the legally difficult alteration of contracts	 Dollarization requires the legally difficult alteration of contracts Many contracts are made with the language of a particular currency. Dollarization requires the re-writing of these contracts in dollar terms. This is costly and can cause legal challenges. 
headline_5	Trade? Does dollarization promote trade?
pro_5_1	Stabilizing the exchange rate against the dollar reduces risks, thus encouraging other countries to engage in trading with that country:	Stabilizing the exchange rate against the dollar reduces risks, thus encouraging other countries to engage in trading with that country: This, in turn, promotes economic growth.[8]
pro_5_2	Dollarization promotes trade among dollar-zone countries	Dollarization promotes trade among dollar-zone countries"By reducing transaction costs, dollarization not only significantly increases bilateral US trade with dollarized countries but promotes trade among dollar-zone countries as well."
con_5_1	Further trade integration with the United States may not be a good thing	Further trade integration with the United States may not be a good thing: Countries will become dependent on the good-will of US trade policies. This is not worth the sacrifices.
con_5_2	Dollarized countries will be vulnerable to being outcompeted in export markerts	Dollarized countries will be vulnerable to being outcompeted in export markerts by countries who have retained their own currency, which may well devalue over time relative to the dollar, making their exports relatively cheaper
headline_6	Seignorage: Is dollarization's impingement on national seignorage tolerable?
pro_6_1	It is likely that the US will eventually share the benefits of seigniorage	It is likely that the US will eventually share the benefits of seigniorage: An International Monetary Stability Act proposing this has been debated in the US and although not passed, is still an issue of strong debate. Some future compromise is likely. In any case, the benefits of seignorage are small compared to the benefits of dollarization.[9]
con_6_1	Dollarized countries lose right to seignorage (print money)	 Dollarized countries lose right to seignorage (print money): Issuing money means gains to the central bank, because you can buy goods with a new note but it does not cost much to produce it. These gains form part of government revenue. They can be significant: 9% of the Brazilian government budget comes from seigniorage. These gains are transferred to the US under dollarization.[10]
headline_7	De-dollarization: Is de-dollarization easy enough?
pro_7_1	De-dollarization is possible and relatively harmless	De-dollarization is possible and relatively harmless 
headline_8	United States: Is dollarization beneficial for the US?
pro_8_1	Dollarized countries can create a higher demand for American goods and services	Dollarized countries can create a higher demand for American goods and services Usually post dollarization countries experience economic growth due to a adopting a better currency.With the dollar as their official currency, dollarized countries can  have tighter financial relation with the US and consequently create more demand for Us goods and services.
con_8_1	If the dollar is globally depreciating, mass dumping of dollar can occur	If the dollar is globally depreciating, mass dumping of dollar can occur
headline_9	Partial Dollarization vs.Fully Dollarized, a better option?
headline_10	United Kingdom: Should the United Kingdom dollarize?
pro_10_1	The UK would benefit from dollarization	The UK would benefit from dollarization
headline_11	Canada: Should the Canadian government dollarize?
con_11_1	The Canadian economy is not trending toward dollarization	The Canadian economy is not trending toward dollarization
