title	Free trade
question	Is free trade and economic globalization (integration) good for the world?
headline_1	Global economy: Does free trade benefit the global economy?
pro_1_1	Free Trade enables people to specialize and benefit from global productive skills	Free Trade enables people to specialize and benefit from global productive skills Federal Reserve Chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, at the Montana Economic Development Summit 2007, Butte, Montana, May 1, 2007 - "At the most basic level, trade is beneficial because it allows people to specialize in the goods and services they produce best and most efficiently. For example, we could conceivably all grow our own food and provide our own medical care. But because farming and medicine require special knowledge and skills, a far more efficient arrangement is for the farmer to specialize in growing food and for the doctor to specialize in treating patients.
pro_1_2	Free trade will end the economic costs of protectionism	Free trade will end the economic costs of protectionism Protectionism can be seen as the opposite of free trade. And, many studies conclude that protectionism has cost the world hundreds of billions of dollars annually in lost revenue as compared to what free trade could have accomplished.
pro_1_3	It is managed trade, not free that is the problem	It is managed trade, not free that is the problem Some criticize the results of some modern attempts at free trade, such as NAFTA. But, others contend that such examples may not be a fair example of "fair trade" as it would be ideally constructed, but rather of a highly managed form of trade. Therefore, the failures of managed free trade up to this point should not be used too sharply as a condemnation of the potential of real "free trade" in the future.
pro_1_4	Free trade is better for consumers	Free trade is better for consumers Free trade is generally known for decreasing prices by ensuring that countries and people specialize in their comparative advantages. Lower prices for consumers means that consumers can spend less on necessities, enabling them to spend more on other things in their lives, thus improving their standard of living.
pro_1_5	Free trade's consumer benefits outweigh the costs to some producers	Free trade's consumer benefits outweigh the costs to some producers While some producers certainly do lose-out from free trade, all consumers benefit (in addition to many producers benefiting). The weight of these benefits outweighs the costs to producers that can't compete with foreign producers.
pro_1_6	Free trade has a strongly positive effect on US economy	Free trade has a strongly positive effect on US economy
pro_1_7	Free trade creates economically beneficial competition	Free trade creates economically beneficial competition
pro_1_8	Free trade shifts work to more productive sectors	Free trade shifts work to more productive sectors Free trade creates productive domestic jobs when it trades internationally with other countries. The restrictions placed on buying other foreign goods that have less marginal cost of  production only encourage production loss by sustaining industries that have high production costs.
con_1_1	The main goal of free trade is to maximize profits not welfare.	The main goal of free trade is to maximize profits not welfare. There are two ways to maximize profit, either to increase sales or to cut costs. The easier one to do is cut costs because increased sales is ultimately dictated by the laws of supply and demand. The biggest cost to most multinationals and large corporations is salary pay or wages, so to cut that cost jobs are sent overseas to developing countries where real wages are much lower and the price of doing business is adequately cheaper. In turn that deteriorates the number of existing jobs domestically.
headline_2	Freedoms: Does fair trade uphold principles of freedom?
pro_2_1	Free trade upholds the freedom of individuals to engage in trade	Free trade upholds the freedom of individuals to engage in trade Individuals have a right to engage in trade with other individuals across borders and without restrictions. This right is certainly protected within modern liberal democracies, it should now also be protected in the world at large between global citizens.
pro_2_2	Free trade is fair trade	Free trade is fair trade Daniella Markheim. "Why Free Trade Works for America". Heritage Foundation. April 16, 2007 - "Free Trade Is Fair Trade
pro_2_3	Protectionism is discriminatory	Protectionism is discriminatory When a country protects its industries, it favors its own people over foreign people. This in itself is discriminatory. Also, a country typically can protect itself in different ways against different countries, and can play favorites in this way. Protectionism, therefore, is inherently discriminatory.
pro_2_4	Free market economies self-regulate socially, ethically, and morally	 Free market economies self-regulate socially, ethically, and morally Martin Wolf, Why Globalization Works?. Yale University Press. 2004. ISBN 0-300-10777-3. pp 53. - "Intelligent critics are prepared to accept that a sophisticated market economy works far better than any other economic system. But they would proceed to complain that markets encourage immorality and have socially immoral consequences, not least gross inequality. These views, albeit common, are largely mistaken...All complex societies are unequal. In all societies people (generally men) seek power and authority over others. But, among sophisticated societies with an elaborate division of labour, societies with market economies have been the least unequal and the inequality they generate has been the least harmful."
con_2_1	Free trade agreements often force countries to privatize public services	 Free trade agreements often force countries to privatize public services Some free trade agreements force countries to privatize certain public service industries such as health care. If some public services, such as health care, are considered a right, however, this privatization of the industry can have the consequence of un-ensuring that this right is upheld.
headline_3	Workers: Does free trade benefit workers? Who benefits and loses?
pro_3_1	Free trade creates more jobs (and better ones) than it destroys	Free trade creates more jobs (and better ones) than it destroys Federal Reserve Chairman,  Ben S. Bernanke,  At the Montana Economic Development Summit 2007, Butte, Montana, May 1, 2007 " The U.S. jobs created by trade also tend to offer higher pay and demand greater skill than the jobs that are destroyed--although a downside is that, in the short run, the greater return to skills created by trade may tend to increase the wage differential between higher-skilled and lower-skilled workers and thus contribute to income inequality (Bernanke, 2007). The effects of trade on employment must also be put in the context of the remarkable dynamism of the U.S. labor market. The amount of "churn" in the labor market--the number of jobs created and destroyed--is enormous and reflects the continuous entry, exit, and resizing of firms in our ever-changing economy. Excluding job layoffs and losses reversed within the year, over the past decade an average of nearly 16 million private-sector jobs have been eliminated each year in the United States, an annual loss equal to nearly 15 percent of the current level of nonfarm private employment.6 The vast majority of these job losses occur for a principal reason other than international trade (Kletzer, 2001; Bernanke, 2004). Moreover, during the past ten years, the 16 million annual job losses have been more than offset by the creation of about 17 million jobs per year--some of which, of course, are attributable to the direct and indirect effects of trade. Truly, the U.S. labor market exhibits a phenomenal capacity for creative destruction"
pro_3_2	Free trade creates many trade-related businesses and jobs	 Free trade creates many trade-related businesses and jobs Free trade creates many trade-related support-industries for exports and imports. This, combined with higher economic activity, helps replace jobs lost to free trade, and more than makes up for any wealth losses as well.
con_3_1	Firms often threaten with outsourcing unions demanding higher wages	Firms often threaten with outsourcing unions demanding higher wages Robert E. Scott. "The high price of 'free' trade". Economic Policy Institute. November 17, 2003 - "'threat effects' arise when firms threaten to close plants and move them abroad while bargaining with workers over wages and working conditions. Employers' credible threats to relocate plants, outsource portions of their operations, and purchase intermediate goods and services directly from foreign producers can have a substantial impact on workers' bargaining positions."
con_3_2	Free trade does not sufficiently protect worker rights	 Free trade does not sufficiently protect worker rights Adrian Boutureira. "The Hidden Costs of Free Trade". The Boston Globe. November 5, 2007 - "This week, the Democratic-led Congress will have its first vote on the Bush administration’s latest NAFTA-like expansion, the US-Peru bilateral free trade agreement[...]Like many workers in Latin American countries, Peruvians face constant threats to their labor rights. Violations include discrimination against union organizers, illegal firings, and forced overtime without pay. Further, the new system of fixed-labor contracts and subcontracting radically undermines workers’ rights because it does not guarantee a 44-hour work week or labor standards. The new, much-talked-about labor language added to the US-Peru agreement does not solve this or many other key labor rights issues."
con_3_3	Retraining workers that lose from free trade is costly	 Retraining workers that lose from free trade is costly While workers can be retrained, this is a time-consuming and expensive process that is not as simple as many Free Traders tend to argue.
con_3_4	Worker retraining programs seldom make up for job loss	 Worker retraining programs seldom make up for job loss Jeffrey Sparshott. "The hidden cost of free trade; Worker retraining for displaced seldom makes up for job losses." The Washington Times. September 18th, 2005
con_3_5	Workers who lose their jobs to free trade earn less in the new jobs they find	 Workers who lose their jobs to free trade earn less in the new jobs they find When a worker is laid off from a job, they are typically put in a poor bargaining position to find a similar-paying job, both because they were laid-off and because they are likely to lack the necessary skills.
con_3_6	Globalization is a race to the bottom	 Globalization is a "race to the bottom"  The competition within the global economy is a race to the bottom that pressures countries to lower their production cost and wages to the lowest possible. Competing against each other, developing countries constantly push the cost of their labor force down in order to attract foreign investors. The clear example of Mexico and China continuously lowering their workers wage in order to compete for the US garment market proves that empirically globalization leads to a race to the bottom
headline_4	Developing countries: Does free trade benefit developing countries?
pro_4_1	Free trade improves the economic growth of developing nations	 Free trade improves the economic growth of developing nations Free trade opens developing nations to international markets, enabling the goods of that country to be more widely sold abroad and, most notably, enabling and even encouraging foreign direct investments that are essential to growth.
pro_4_2	Free trade and openness correlate to higher wealth generation	Free trade and openness correlate to higher wealth generation Marian L. Tupy. "Free Trade Benefits All". Washington Times, January 3, 2006 - "Evidence supports the idea nations more open to trade tend to be richer than those that are less open. Columbia University economist Arvind Panagariya wrote in a paper 'Miracles and Debacles: Do Free-Trade Skeptics Have a Case?': 'On the poverty front, there is overwhelming evidence that trade openness is a more trustworthy friend of the poor than protectionism. Few countries have grown rapidly without a simultaneous rapid expansion of trade. In turn, rapid growth has almost always led to reduction in poverty."
pro_4_3	African tariffs and protectionism have been economically harmful	African tariffs and protectionism have been economically harmful Marian L. Tupy. "Free Trade Benefits All". Washington Times, January 3, 2006 - "Under the World Trade Organization's "special and differential treatment" rule, many sub-Saharan African countries have been permitted to retain significantly higher import tariffs than rich countries. Combined with "preferential treatment" of their goods in rich countries' markets, sub-Saharan African producers enjoy a substantial advantage over other foreign competitors.
pro_4_4	Free trade improves the global allocation of resources	Free trade improves the global allocation of resources Marian L. Tupy. "Free Trade Benefits All". Washington Times, January 3, 2006 - "(1) Trade improves global efficiency in resource allocation. A glass of water may be of little value to someone living near the river but is priceless to a person crossing the Sahara. Trade delivers goods and services to those who value them most."
con_4_1	Trade liberalization damages the growth of poor countries	Trade liberalization damages the growth of poor countries From free trade to free and fair trade” - "Fair competition means that free trade should not, as it does today, take place at the expense of workers and the environment. Unfettered free trade leads to business going where – other things being equal – wages are lowest, obligations to workers (worker safety, social insurance) least, and environmental regulations most lax. Consequently, in the competition to attract investment there is constant pressure on countries to relax both social and environmental regulations. Especially in poor countries this leads to the unfettered exploitation of workers and abuse of the environment."
con_4_2	Free trade undermines manufacturing muscle of developed nations	Free trade undermines manufacturing muscle of developed nations.
con_4_3	Trade liberalization has been costly to Africa	Trade liberalization has been costly to Africa Christian Aid - "Trade liberalisation has cost sub-Saharan Africa US$272 billion over the past 20 years. Had they not been forced to liberalise as the price of aid, loans and debt relief, sub-Saharan African countries would have had enough extra income to wipe out their debts and have sufficient left over to pay for every child to be vaccinated and go to school."[1]
con_4_4	The current regional FTAs undermine poor countries' bargaining power	The current regional FTAs undermine poor countries' bargaining power “The Pros and Cons of Pursuing Free-Trade Agreements” , Economic and Budget Issue Brief, July 31, 2003 - "Some critics worry that FTAs might divert the world away from multilateral trade liberalization and lead to the development of large, competing trading blocs--the United States and the Western Hemisphere, the EU and nearby countries, and Japan and its trading partners in Asia and the Pacific Rim--a result that would be inferior to multilateral free trade. Critics also note that the large size of the U.S. economy and its consequent desirability as a market give the United States a great advantage in negotiations with individual countries, especially small developing ones. The same is true for FTAs negotiated by the EU or Japan. The result of such unequal bargaining power can be that significant trade restrictions by the large countries remain in place that would more likely be eliminated under circumstances of more-equal negotiating power."
headline_5	Vital interests: Does free trade allow countries to protect their vital national interests?
con_5_1	Free trade leads to foreign dependencies in vital resources	Free trade leads to foreign dependencies in vital resources Patrick J. Buchanan. "Free Trade is Not Free, Mr. President". The American Cause. May, 2001 - "Have we forgotten? Hamilton created the 'American System' to end our reliance on England and Europe, because he and Washington believed economic independence was necessary for political independence. If we did not depend on Europe, they knew, we could stay out of Europe’s wars. Is all that Made-in-China junk at the mall worth the loss of our economic independence?"
con_5_2	Free trade sacrifices national unity to economics	Free trade sacrifices national unity to economics Patrick J. Buchanan. "Free Trade is Not Free, Mr. President". The American Cause. May, 2001 - "Do not Americans see what is happening to their country? As our dependency grows, our bonds of unity dissolve. 'Buy American!' is now stupid; buying cheapest is smart."
con_5_3	Free trade's outsourcing of defense systems threatens national security	 Free trade's outsourcing of defense systems threatens national security Whenever a country outsources its vital national defense systems, it creates dangerous dependencies and vulnerabilities. It also jeopardizes the quality of a national defense system.
headline_6	Economic model: Are free trade and integration the most productive economic models?
pro_6_1	Free markets and free trade are ideal economic conditions	 Free markets and free trade are ideal economic conditions Vaclav Havel, Summer Meditations (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1992), p. 62: - "Though my heart may be left of centre, I have always known that the only economic system that works is a market economy. This is the only natural economy, the only kind that makes sense, the only one that leads to prosperity, because it is the only one that reflects the nature of life itself. The essence of life is infinitely and mysteriously multiform, and therefore it cannot be contained or planned for, in its fullness and variability by any central intelligence."
pro_6_2	Globalization is not rampant, remaining fairly limited in scope globally	 Globalization is not rampant, remaining fairly limited in scope globally Globalization and free trade are in their infancy. The fact that it is not widespread, and that many developed countries continue protectionist policies, is actually the source of many problems for developing and poor countries. These poor countries could use more free trade at this moment, and to attribute the existence of free trade as the cause of these countries' current plight, would be to misunderstand how limited globalization actually is today.
pro_6_3	Free trade increases the purchasing power of consumers	 Free trade increases the purchasing power of consumers - This is a common counter-argument against concerns surrounding job-loss associated with free trade. While job-loss does occur, the counter-argument is that it is well made-up for by the greater purchasing powers and living-standards of workers in general.
con_6_1	Free trade's notion of specialization is risky for countries	 Free trade's notion of specialization is risky for countries - If a country specializes according to the principles advocated typically by free traders, it would put all of its eggs in one basket, exposing itself to risks in this way.
con_6_2	Companies that out-source cheaper labor aren't investing enough in innovation	 Companies that out-source cheaper labor aren't investing enough in innovation Thea Lee and Ralph Nader, The case against free trade; Happily never NAFTER, there's not such thing as free trade. Earth Island Press, 1993 ISBN 156431694. Chapter 5, pp. 71. - "As for efficiency, it is not much to get excited about when the savings come from cheap labor rather than better technology or easier access to resources. In fact, as firms shift production to Mexico, lured by wages of $1 or $2 an hour, they lose some incentive to invest in cutting-edge techniques that improve productivity. For years, U.S. firms have been setting up "maquiladora" factories just over the Mexican border, and NAFTA would simply speed the trend."
headline_7	Poverty/inequality: Does free trade help reduce poverty and inequality?
pro_7_1	Economic globalization is the best way to improve living standards globally	 Economic globalization is the best way to improve living standards globally  Globalization has promoted economic growth within developing countries. As economies have been more open to free trade they have recorded a better growth rate.  Better integration in a global economy will be a key tool for reducing poverty in the world.
pro_7_2	Globalization and free trade has reduced inequality	 Globalization and free trade has reduced inequality  More open economies have had increasing economic growth and in this way  global income inequality between countries has been reduced. Failure  for  this inequality to be reduced is largely caused by domestic policies, and less global integration which  reaffirms the fact that more global economic integration will inevitably lead to less inequality between countries
pro_7_3	It is OK if free trade increases inequality as long as it is still a net benefit to the poor	It is OK if free trade increases inequality as long as it is still a net benefit to the poor As long as the circumstances of the poor are improved overall by Free Trade, why should it matter that the wealthy are gaining disproportionately? Any system that benefits everyone on some level is a good system.
pro_7_4	It is the lack of global free trade that is the cause of continued poverty	It is the lack of global free trade that is the cause of continued poverty Poor performance within the global economy has been proven to be linked with domestic factors within countries that close their economies from global free trade.Higher rates of success have been recorded among  more open economies to global free trade , that have integrated more successfully in teh global economy
con_7_1	Globalization has worsened poverty	 Globalization has worsened poverty Studies have shown that despite the increasing rate of the global economy expanding there have been a significant number of countries where there has been no growth recorded over the past thirty years. Numbers also confirm that absolute poverty throughout the world has been increasing.
con_7_2	Free trade and investment risks rapid capital flight from developing countries.	Free trade and investment risks rapid capital flight from developing countries. When massive amounts of capital can flow across borders via wire transfers, the potential for capital flight is created. This occurs when fears arise regarding a certain country and its markets. Investors from around the world may rapidly withdraw their investments, sending a country into financial bankruptcy. This is a major risk associated with free trade and globalization.
con_7_3	Free trade worsens income inequality	 Free trade worsens income inequality The gap between rich and poor countries has widened .Poor countries has lower incomes that developing and industrial countries positioning them at a high disadvantage when competing in a global economy.
con_7_4	Free trade unequally benefits the wealthy	Free trade unequally benefits the wealthy It is wrong for free trade to disproportionately benefit the wealthy over the poor. The wealthy are already doing just fine in most countries. Any system that does this is corrupted and regressive.
headline_8	Reciprocity: Should countries unilaterally adopt free trade without reciprocity?
pro_8_1	Countries should unilaterally adopt free trade without reciprocity	Countries should unilaterally adopt free trade without reciprocity James K. Glassman. "Trade Briefing Paper no. 1 The Blessings of Free Trade". Center for Trade Policy Studies. May 1, 1998 - "My conclusion is that it would be smart for the United States to abandon its current negotiating posture, which is that we will take down our trade barriers if you will take down yours.
con_8_1	Countries cannot be expected to adopt free trade unilaterally.	Countries cannot be expected to adopt free trade unilaterally. If a nation decides to unilaterally adopt free trade, it runs the risk of other countries continuing to protect their domestic industries from foreign industries, which would put the nation taking unilateral action at a disadvantage. Such action is highly unlikely because it requires that a nation be unilaterally willing to put itself at a disadvantage.
headline_9	Sovereignty/interests: Does free trade respect national sovereignty and interests?
pro_9_1	Global governance will make governing free trade possible	Global governance will make governing free trade possible Economic integration and increasing living standards are dependent on good governance. Globalization has put more pressure on governments to be accountable and promote free competition in order to achieve growth. Countries need to cooperate to achieve common goals and global governance can allow the possibility to avoid the emergence of more failed states.
pro_9_2	Legislative processes are ineffectual in making trade agreements	 Legislative processes are ineffectual in making trade agreements Negotiations with foreign powers require that the slow and cumbersome legislative processes of many countries are bypassed. This is precisely why executive branches of government are created; to deal with foreign governments and make executive decisions when the immediacy of such decisions is necessary.
con_9_1	Free trade undermines democratic processes	Free trade undermines democratic processes Free trade imposes corporate commercial values over governments. It undermines governments’ power and shifts the power to the corporate unregulated sector.
con_9_2	Free trade intrudes on national sovereignty	 Free trade intrudes on national sovereignty. Free trade puts a high pressure on competing on a global market. This pressure for developing countries has placed them at crossroads forcing them to chose to keep their currency or pegging it to the dollar or even making the US dollar as their national currency. Giving up a symbol of national identity (one’s currency) for the ability to compete better in a global market is a clear example of a high intrusion of free trade on national sovereignty.
con_9_3	Free trade impairs national economic controls.	Free trade impairs national economic controls. Free trade makes it impossible for a country to control the future of its economy. Multi-national corporations gain influence and the walls of sovereign economic control break-down.
headline_10	Relations/stability: Does free trade help improve relations among countries?
pro_10_1	Protectionism causes resentment among nations	 Protectionism causes resentment among nations Protectionism is often seen by countries as hostile trade policy; it can create an unfair advantage for an industry within one country over the same industry in another. This can lead to resentment and strains between citizens and leaders of countries.
pro_10_2	Trade reduces conflict between countries	Trade reduces conflict between countries Evidence shows that empirically it has proven that free trade improves relations between countries and promotes peace. Foreign investment ties countries into a stable framework of interaction  significantly diminishing prospects for war.
con_10_1	Free trade can benefit the hostile interests of some countries	Free trade can benefit the hostile interests of some countries Patrick J. Buchanan. "Free Trade is Not Free, Mr. President". The American Cause. May, 2001 - "A third cost of free trade is the corruption of conservatism and the mass conversion of American capitalists into the pimps of hostile powers. Since 1990, China has amassed $400 billion in trade surpluses with the U.S. That cash hoard has financed the largest military buildup in Asia since Japan in the ‘30s. Beijing had used it to buy Russian destroyers, subs and Sunburn anti-ship missiles and Lavi fighters and Python air-to-air missiles from Israel. What is this Chinese arsenal for? To fight and kill the U.S. Pacific fleet."
headline_11	Infant industry: Should infant industries be exposed to free trade or protected?
pro_11_1	The alternative to free trade is a faulty protectionism model	The alternative to free trade is a faulty protectionism model Laurence M. Vance. "The Moral Case for Free Trade". LewRockwell.com. February 4, 2004 - "The alternative to free trade is protectionism, whether in the form of tariffs or import quotas. Besides making imported goods more expensive, tariffs merely give the government additional revenue. But why should the state be entitled to more money? Doesn’t the state already spend over $2 trillion a year? To question the legitimacy of free trade while at the same time saying that protectionist measures are not the answer is to attempt a middle-of-the-road position, which, as Mises showed, leads to socialism."
pro_11_2	Protectionism is highly costly to the global economy	Protectionism is highly costly to the global economy "Benefits of Free Trade". National Center for Policy Analysis. Retrieved 2. 205.08 - "Finally, a 1993 study by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development established that protectionism costs the world economy upward of $450 billion a year."
pro_11_3	Protectionism is a poor way to promote infant industries	 Protectionism is a poor way to promote infant industries Martin Wolf, Why Globalization Works?. Yale University Press. 2004. ISBN 0-300-10777-3. pp 88. - "protection is an indirect an ineffective policy for promoting infants. Apart from the cost it imposes on consumers, it has two other seriously negative side-effects:first, it limits the new industry to the domestic market, since protection, by definition, raises returns only on domestic sales; and, second, it provides protection from the world's most potent competitors. The first limitation may not matter much for countries with relatively big and rapidly growing domestic markets (such as the United States in the nineteenth century), but it is significant for most developing countries, which have tiny markets: Nigeria's dollar purchasing power in 2000 was less than a tenth of London's. The second limitation means that, protected from effective competition, the infants almost always fail to grow up."
con_11_1	Infant industries should be protected from free trade	 Infant industries should be protected from free trade Melitz, Marc J, “When and How Should Infant Industries Be Protected?”Department of Economics,The University of Michigan October 11, 1999 "First formulated by Alexander Hamilton and Friedrich List at the beginning of the Nineteenth Century, the case for infant industry protection has been generally accepted by economists over the last two centuries. Although some of the arguments supporting protection have come under successful attacks over the years, most economists would nonetheless agree to a list of specific circumstances that would warrant the temporary and limited protection of an infant industry. In his famous statement supporting the case for infant industry protection, John Stuart Mill alluded to one of the main circumstances on this list: the presence of dynamic learning effects that are external to firms.1 Mill recognized that certain additional conditions must also be met in order to justify protection. He specifically mentioned that protection must be temporary and that the infant industry must then mature and become viable without protection."
headline_12	Democracy: Does free trade promote democracy in the world?
pro_12_1	Free trade promotes democracy	 Free trade promotes democracy Political scientists have developed the "Modernization Theory" through which they explain the internal link between democracy and economic development. Free trade promotes a better standard of living and as such creates the higher need for freedom. The flow of trade integrates people into different cultures with different degrees of civil and human freedoms. As this process continues their demand for a more transparent and accountable government establishes the foundations for a democratic society.
pro_12_2	Free trade promotes peace and stability internationally	 Free trade promotes peace and stability internationally Daniel Griswold, presented at the Peace Through Trade" Conference”, in Oslo Norway three main reason for which free trade promotes peace. He uses the democratic peace theory to support the fact that democracies do no fight each other. Since free trade enhances democracies it enhances peace between states. He also believes that free trade promotes more economic integration, which constrains the out-break of war by making it highly economically costly. Lastly, he argues that free trade promotes wealth acquisition by mutually beneficial transactions, contrary state economic models that have emphasized territorial expansion, which often incites war.[2]
con_12_1	Free trade undermines democratic processes	Free trade undermines democratic processes Free trade agreements allow for foreign investing corporations to bypass domestic judicial system. The government in this way gives up its right to regulate foreign investment and citizens cannot be protected against corporation abuses.
headline_13	Culture: Does free trade and globalization have positive effects on culture?
pro_13_1	Globalization provide people with greater access to different cultures	Globalization provide people with greater access to different cultures Market analysis offers a powerful tool for understanding the dynamics of cultural evolution. Market forces are determined by cultural understandings and a greater ability to perform in a global economy is highly dependent on understanding various cultures. This provides incentives for tolerance and cultural understanding.
pro_13_2	Globalization will not eliminate the importance of physical participation in a foreign culture	Globalization will not eliminate the importance of physical participation in a foreign culture "If people want to participate fully in Swedish culture, enjoy a wide choice of Swedish schools for their children, have predominantly Swedish neighbours and partake of the full range of benefits offered by the Swedish welfare state, then they have to live in Sweden."
pro_13_3	Globalization involves positive imitation of cultures	 Globalization involves positive imitation of cultures Martin Wolf, Why Globalization Works?. Yale University Press. 2004. ISBN 0-300-10777-3. pp 102. - "It is true that, today, that western ideas of democracy and the market economy, including business culture (and the intellectual counterculture to business culture) are spreading quite rapidly across the globe. But it was always so. Human beings imitate, or are absorbed by, the ideas of others on what to believe and how to live."
pro_13_4	Multilingual labeling broadens product appeal	 Multilingual labeling broadens product appeal Businesses that are forced to label their products in multiple languages often benefit from a certain appeal to the consumer that such internationalism brings.
con_13_1	NAFTA creates the problem of multilingual labeling on goods and products	 NAFTA creates the problem of multilingual labeling on goods and products From the perspective of North American consumers, one of the negative effects of NAFTA has been the significant increase in bilingual (and often trilingual) labeling on products for simultaneous distribution through retailers in Canada, the United States, and Mexico in French, English, and Spanish.
con_13_2	Globalization promotes materialistic values that  undermine wider ethical and social values within each culture	Globalization promotes materialistic values that  undermine wider ethical and social values within each culture Globalization and free trade put value on growth, efficiently, speed and in this way exercises a negative influence on core values within a society. It shifts the focus from ethics and social values towards materialistic values.
headline_14	Environment: Is free trade good for the environment?
pro_14_1	Free markets and trade benefit the environment	 Free markets and trade benefit the environment “Is Globalization Causing A 'Race To The Bottom' In Environmental Standards?” - "A 1998 World Bank study of organic water pollution found that pollution intensity fell by 90 per cent as per capita income rose from $500 to $20,000, with the fastest decline occurring before the country reached middle income status (Figure 6. Hettige, Mani and Wheeler, 1998). Average air quality in China has stabilized or improved since the mid-1980s in monitored cities, especially large ones - the same period during which China has experienced both rapid economic growth and increased openness to trade and investment."
pro_14_2	Openness to trade provides developing countries with access to better technologies	Openness to trade provides developing countries with access to better technologies  Developing countries grow with the help of foreign investment. Foreign investment brings better and more environmentally friendly  production methods.
pro_14_3	Free trade encourages production where it is environmentally friendly	Free trade encourages production where it is environmentally friendly "The argument for free trade". BBC. February 12, 2003 - "Good for the environment
pro_14_4	Agricultural protectionism causes overuse and degradation of land	Agricultural protectionism causes overuse and degradation of land "The argument for free trade". BBC. February 12, 2003 - "Thus, the European Common Agriculture Policy results in overproduction of many goods, lowering the amount that developing country producers of these goods receive. The fact that such subsidies also encourage overuse of marginal land, drainage of wetlands, destruction of hedges and overuse of pesticides and fertilisers, makes them doubly heinous."
con_14_1	Free trade and markets harm the environment	 Free trade and markets harm the environment Free trade agreements cannot discriminate against any products because of their way of production. This allows for trading products that have been grown or processed with techniques that have been harmful to the environment .
con_14_2	Trade liberalization is fueling global warming	Trade liberalization is fueling global warming Les Leopold.” Globalization Is Fueling Global Warming”AlterNet.December 28, 2007 ”Global free trade proponents skillfully argue for comparative advantage, opening up markets, and economies of scale. They point to the communications marvels that have flattened and shrunken the world, putting us all in contact and in competition with each other for the best ideas and products. Global warming, however, puts a kink in this new global utopia because it demands that we also include the costs of externalities -- the carbon dioxide emitted from shipping and flying goods all over the globe -- goods that could easily be produced much closer to the point of consumption.It may be marvelous to text message your colleague in Bangalore, but from a CO2 perspective, it's folly to fly fresh raspberries from Chile to California. And under current trade policies, we will import the next wave of high-efficiency light bulbs to save energy while wasting some of the gain on the carbon used to transport them here from around the globe.But the elephant in the room is hyper-development. Expanded trade indeed has contributed to the enormous economic growth rates in China (and India). As a result, China's appetite for fuel and power has grown exponentially: As The New York Times reported (June 11, 2006), every week to 10 days, another coal-fired power plant comes online in China large enough to serve a major U.S. city.”
con_14_3	Unfettered Free Trade  allows for toxic products to be commercialized	Unfettered Free Trade  allows for toxic products to be commercialized Les Leopold.” Globalization Is Fueling Global Warming”AlterNet.December 28, 2007 - "And, it's apparent who the winners are in this race as onto our store shelves and into our homes come toxic toys, toxic pharmaceuticals, toxic toothpaste, and toxic dog food -- very predictable products of accelerated global trade."
headline_15	Popularity: Is free trade popular in the world?
con_15_1	Free trade is unpopular	 Free trade is unpopular
con_15_2	Economists worry about the losses of free trade and globalization	Economists worry about the losses of free trade and globalization
