title	Legalization of Marijuana
question	Should Marijuana be legalized?
headline_1	Health: Is marijuana fairly harmless health-wise or even spiritually beneficial?
pro_1_1	There is no evidence that marijuana decreases cognitive functions	 There is no evidence that marijuana decreases cognitive functions A 15-year John Hopkins University study published in May 1999 found "no significant differences in cognitive decline between heavy users, light users, and non-users of cannabis."
pro_1_2	Marijuana is no more harmful than tobacco and alcohol	 Marijuana is no more harmful than tobacco and alcohol Although cannabis does indeed have some harmful effects, it is no more harmful than legal substances like alcohol and tobacco. As a matter of fact, research by the British Medical Association shows that nicotine is far more addictive than cannabis. Furthermore, the consumption of alcohol and the smoking of cigarettes cause more deaths per year than does the use of cannabis (e.g. through lung cancer, stomach ulcers, accidents caused by drunk driving etc.). The legalization of cannabis will remove an anomaly in the law whereby substances that are more dangerous than cannabis are legal whilst the possession and use of cannabis remains unlawful.
pro_1_3	Marijuana can have a beneficial mind-altering effect if used right	 Marijuana can have a beneficial mind-altering effect if used right Marijuana use can alter one's perception of reality or consciousness. The alteration need not be thought of as spiritual or religious to be respected for what it is; a fresh look on a reality that we are programed as humans to perceive only in a particular manner. Marijuana can help humans perceive that complex reality from simply a different perspective, which can benefit our appreciation for that reality and our unique and limited perceptions of it. With this more intelligent approach to marijuana consumption, it is easy to argue that mental, perceptual, and societal benefits exist. 
pro_1_4	Weighing marijuana's mind-expansion against its costs is subjective.	Weighing marijuana's "mind-expansion" against its costs is subjective. Who can say that marijuana use is "worth it" or "not worth it"? Many individuals strongly believe that marijuana use has a "mind expanding" effect that makes the health costs worth it. Other disagree. But can the government or anyone conclude for us all that "it's not worth it"? No. With so much subjectiveness involved, marijuana should not be illegal.
pro_1_5	Legalization would change drug consumption from a criminal to a health issue	 Legalization would change drug consumption from a criminal to a health issue The biggest issue with marijuana relates to the health problems it creates, with lung problems, "addiction", short-term memory loss, energy loss, and even the risk of schizophrenia. The social costs are little different than those with alcohol or cigarettes. Therefore, it should be treaty as a health issue, rather than a crime issue.
pro_1_6	Marijuana is not toxic to humans	 Marijuana is not toxic to humans James Randerson, Science Correspondent. "Cannabis Chemical Curbs Psychotic Symptoms". Guardian Unlimited UK. April 30, 2007 - "London -- One of the active chemicals in cannabis inhibits psychotic symptoms in people with schizophrenia, according to a study which compared it with a leading anti-psychotic drug."
pro_1_7	Marijuana is not addictive	 Marijuana is not addictive There is no evidence that marijuana physically addictive. While it may be psychologically addictive, in the sense that people like it and want to do it again, this is little different than alcohol. But, certainly, cigarettes are more addictive than marijuana. And, since cigarettes are physically addictive and yet legal, should addictiveness really be a barometer for a substance's illegality? No. 
pro_1_8	Marijuana can curb psychotic symptoms in people with schizophrenia	 Marijuana can curb psychotic symptoms in people with schizophrenia 
pro_1_9	It is a myth that marijuana use can cause schizophrenia	 It is a myth that marijuana use can cause schizophrenia Dr. Lester Grinspoon, associate professor of psychiatry at the Harvard Medical School and author of Marijuana Reconsidered: "Marijuana laws and their enforcement have become increasingly severe, buttressed by 'new' myths dressed in scientific costume such as the present notion, developed largely in England and Australia, that marijuana causes schizophrenia."[1]
pro_1_10	Marijuana has many CONFIRMED medicinal uses.	Marijuana has many CONFIRMED medicinal uses. It was widely used to treat glaucoma, give relief to chemotherapy recipients, and also as a TREATMENT for many psychological disorders (such as social anxiety disorder and anxiety disorder). Additionally, there is no contention, in any medical circle, that marijuana is an effective stress reliever, causing it to have IMMEASURABLE beneficial effects in the treatment of stress-related physical and psychological disorders... yet many state governments have banned even the medical use of marijuana solely because it potentially makes it more available to elicit users. There are several studies that not only discount marijuana as a cause of schizophrenia, but further suggest that it has sometimes profound beneficial effects on patients with A.D.D., Borderline Personality Disorder and (yes) schizophrenia.
pro_1_11	Marijuana has been used in religious rites and rituals for thousands of years.	Marijuana has been used in religious rites and rituals for thousands of years. If venomous snakes in religious rites and rituals (often used on congregational children) cannot be banned in this country (which the Supreme Court decided is constitutionally protected), then what right does the government have to prohibit the use of an obviously less deadly practice such as the consumption of marijuana? It is for every person ALONE to decide what is spiritually beneficial to them. Our FIRST amendment guarantees it.
con_1_1	Marijuana is worse for individuals and society than alcohol.	Marijuana is worse for individuals and society than alcohol. Both alcohol and marijuana impair judgement. But alcohol has lasting damage on the body and causes death when over consumed.Yet, the distinguishing feature of marijuana is that it has greater long-term effects on memory, cognition, and motivations. Marijuana is more the drug of "losers in life" than alcohol.  If one primary objective in society is to produce as many succesfull winners,  alcohol is less costly to this objective than marijuana. Also, much less is known about he health effects of marijuana than of alcohol; making caution toward legalizing marijuana more appropriate. It is, therefore, fitting that marijuana be illegal while alcohol be legal. 
con_1_2	Marijuana is worse for individuals and society than tobacco.	Marijuana is worse for individuals and society than tobacco. Both cigarettes and marijuana do damage to the lungs. But, marijuana smoke is much more potent, and can do much more damage.Italic textfreedom of choice, I think its the smokers choice weather to hurt their body the government might as well control what we eat, being overweight can cause way more probelms. tobacco is not only addicting but has a lot of additives.Marijuana on the other hand IS NOT.Marijuana use reduces hormone levels and sperm count unlike cigarettes.Freedom of Choice. And, marijuana impairs judgement, does long term damage to the mind, and can cause psychosisNot a proven statement - just a theory, therefor It is not a fact, It Causes SHORT TERM memory loss. NOT long term.. Cigarettes have none of these mental costs.Addiction, a BIG mental cost. In addition, the health effects of tobacco are much better documented than those of marijuana. Therefore, it is appropriate that cigarettes be legal while marijuana be illegal. 
con_1_3	Marijuana is addictive	 Marijuana is addictive There are many studies that demonstrate a "dependency" relationship evolving between individuals and marijuana.
con_1_4	Marijuana use increases the risk of psychosis	 Marijuana use increases the risk of psychosis 
con_1_5	Marijuana impairs brain functions.	Marijuana impairs brain functions. Many researches conclude that marijuana impairs short-term memory, cognition, and motivations.
con_1_6	Marijuana smoke is highly damaging to the lungs.	Marijuana smoke is highly damaging to the lungs. Marijuana smoke is more potent than cigarette smoke, with some researches concluding that the negative effect of one joint is equivalent to a pack of cigarettes. 
con_1_7	Marijuana use impairs hormone production.	Marijuana use impairs hormone production. It is frequently cited that marijuana use leads to reductions in sperm levels. This reduction in hormone levels is a major cost of marijuana use.
con_1_8	Marijuana use impairs the immune system.	Marijuana use impairs the immune system.
con_1_9	Marijuana use impairs motor skills.	Marijuana use impairs motor skills. 
con_1_10	Marijuana use has been linked to various birth challenges	 Marijuana use has been linked to various birth challenges
con_1_11	That marijuana is herbal does not mean it is safe	 That marijuana is herbal does not mean it is safe Some argue that marijuana is "OK" because it's "natural", "herbal", or "comes from the earth". But, on these criteria, poisons would be considered "OK" to consume.
con_1_12	Marijuana use can lead to cancer	 Marijuana use can lead to cancer Just like with cigarettes, the intake of carcinogens in marijuana risks causing cancer. 
con_1_13	Marijuana use causes apoptosis or programmed cell death	 Marijuana use causes apoptosis or programmed cell death Unlike alcohol and tobacco, cannabis has a hallucinatory effect on the mind. This is inherently dangerous in itself. Furthermore, just like other drugs, there are many individuals addicted to cannabis who will resort to crime in order to fund their addiction.[citation needed] The legalization of cannabis will lead to the drug becoming more readily available, which in turn will mean that many more people will gain access to it. This will subsequently lead to an increase in the crime rate. Initial statistics from the Netherlands shows that the decriminalization and eventual legalization of cannabis did led to an increase in crime in Dutch society[citation needed].
con_1_14	Uncertainty of marijuana's health effects makes illegality prudent.	Uncertainty of marijuana's health effects makes illegality prudent. There certainly remains uncertainty and debate about marijuana's health effects. This makes it prudent to error on the side of caution and maintain illegality in states where this is the status quo. What if, for example, a state decided to legalize marijuana, to only discover five years later that marijuana has a dramatically more negative impact on human cognition than previously thought, or that it substantially increased the risks of psychosis? This would be politically and socially damaging. More scientific conclusions should be reached before decisive action is taken in any direction, as clearly the 60 years or so accumulated research to date, which is more than any pharmacutical drug testing standards employ, is insufficient.
headline_2	Individual liberty: Should individuals be at liberty to use marijuana?
pro_2_1	Individuals should be free to harm themselves.	Individuals should be free to harm themselves. If an individual wants to harm themselves, they should be free to do so. 
pro_2_2	People should be free to use marijuana as long as it harms no one else	 People should be free to use marijuana as long as it harms no one else People should be at liberty to treat their bodies how they want to. Indeed, people are allowed to eat and drink to their detriment and even death, so why shouldn't they be able to harm themselves with marijuana use? This is, of course, assuming that their use does not harm anyone else. This means, as with substances such as alcohol or cigarrettes, that regulations be put in place to ensure that one individual's consumption of marijuana does not violate the liberties of another citizen. If this is achievable with alcohol and cigarettes, it seems achievable with marijuana. 
pro_2_3	The choice to use marijuana should be based on individual experience	 The choice to use marijuana should be based on individual experience Marijuana induces different experiences in different individuals; some of these experiences are great, some are terrible and harmful. Individuals should be free to choose to use marijuana or not, depending on their relative experience.
pro_2_4	If marijuana is harmful, isn't this sufficient punishment for users	 If marijuana is harmful, isn't this sufficient punishment for users If marijuana is harmful, shouldn't individuals be at liberty to experience the punishment of a poor choice, and shouldn't this mean that marijuana use entails its own punishments that requires no imposed government punishment.
pro_2_5	Marijuana's social costs should not be arbitrarily discriminated against.	Marijuana's social costs should not be arbitrarily discriminated against. Marijuana may indeed have indirect social costs, such as increased healthcare costs, increased risks on the road, and others. But, illegalizing marijuana on this basis risks being seen as arbitrary discrimination against marijuana. Wouldn't you also have to illegalize alcohol, tobacco, and  fast food on a similar basis. Certainly, the social costs and risks of these substances can be argued as equivalent to the risks of marijuana consumption. Illegalizing marijuana on the basis of its social costs, therefore, opens the law to accusations of being arbitrary, discriminatory, and of double standards. This is not good for the law and the integrity of the social contract. 
pro_2_6	Marijuana is only unhealthy or risky when abused.	Marijuana is only unhealthy or risky when abused. The problem with illegalizing marijuana is that it lumps the most moderate of uses of marijuana in with the worst of abuses. Just like with alcohol, there are scales of use that fall within responsible to irresponsible to abusive categories. The responsible use of marijuana might involve the recreational use of the drug a couple of times a year and in very small doses, such as, a single toke. Does it make sense for such innocuous levels of consumption to be illegal? No. And, yet, in states where marijuana is illegal, such levels of consumption are illegal. Instead of this system, marijuana should be legally regulated like alcohol on the basis of abuse in circumstances where it has the potential to threaten other citizens, such as before driving or operating machinery. 
pro_2_7	Use of Marijuana (illegally) is a choice.	Use of Marijuana (illegally) is a choice.  Many people seem to be under the impression that the use of illegal drugs is something that may be forced on someone.  However, unless coerced by force, this is normally not the case.  Because laws are a part of our everyday lives, we are taught what things are legal and illegal by law, through life experience.  By definition, illegal drugs are not legal to use.  Since marijuana is illegal, then use, cultivation, sale and distribution is illegal as well.  One doesn't have to be aware of the moral or health related issues that go along with something to know that it's illegal.  Therefore, if someone wishes to commit an illegal act, then the punishment for getting caught is the punishment of the illegal act violating the law.
pro_2_8	Historic leaders would oppose social engineering on Marijuana-use	 Historic leaders would oppose social engineering on Marijuana-use Thomas Jefferson: "I predict future happiness for Americans if they can prevent the government from wasting the labors of the people under the pretense of taking care of them." Another example is Thomas Paine, who said: "It is the duty of every patriot to protect his country from its government." 
pro_2_9	Judgement and common sense cannot be legislated.	Judgement and common sense cannot be legislated. No matter what research you read of who's stories you listen to, the fact remains that the bad or good aspects of marijuana use are above all else subjective, and in essence an oppinion. It is simply a judgement call. Each side has it's oppinion on the benefits and/or negative ramifications of marijuana use. With marijuana use there are the same pitfalls as any other life activity... bad judgement yeilds bad results... but our ability to choose for ourselves MUST be preserved. There are MUCH more severe social ramifications from a government that is allowed to illegalize ANYTHING solely on the basis of maybes. They cannot illegalize fast food even though it is WIDELY accepted that it is bad for you. They cannot illegalize swimming because you MAY be attacked by a shark. They may not illegalize ANYTHING on the notion that it MAY cause harm. If that were allowed, then any opinion may be made law. 
con_2_1	The State is justified in protecting individuals from themselves	The State is justified in protecting individuals from themselves Even if marijuana's effects were isolated to the individual, there is room for the state to protect individuals from harming themselves. This is why it is illegal, in some places, not wear a seat belt. If marijuana's effects are seen as clearly harmful, the state can justly protect its citizens from it. 
con_2_2	Some are pressured into marijuana consumption without a choice.	Some are "pressured" into marijuana consumption without a "choice". The notion that individuals should be free to make the choice to consume marijuana is predicated on the notion that they are fully informed of the costs and are in a position of detached judgement. The problem with this assumption is that many individuals grow up in, for instance, ghettos where marijuana is widespread, social pressure to consume is high, and few information is available regarding the costs. In addition, an individual may be illiterate or lack sufficient recourse to uncovering the costs. Is it fair to that individual to expect that they can make a sound judgement? No. The guidance of marijuana's "illegal" status is an important barrier and red flag to such individuals. 
con_2_3	Marijuana use directly threatens other's liberties.	Marijuana use directly threatens other's liberties. Various risks to other citizens are greatly enhanced by marijuana use. Because marijuana impairs judgement and motor skills in various ways, people on a high who attempt to drive or operate heavy machinery risk other people's lives or health. Impaired judgement from marijuana use also has the potential to lead to violent encounters.
con_2_4	Legalization of marijuana would make roads more dangerous.	Legalization of marijuana would make roads more dangerous.
con_2_5	Some train and plane tragedies were connected with marijuana use.	Some train and plane tragedies were connected with marijuana use.
con_2_6	Legalization of marijuana would increase work-place accidents	Legalization of marijuana would increase work-place accidents
con_2_7	Police are unable to detect Marijuana highs and public risk	 Police are unable to detect Marijuana highs and public risk
con_2_8	Instances of brutal violence and murder are tied to marijuana use	 Instances of brutal violence and murder are tied to marijuana use Instances of brutal violence and murder have been cited as caused, to some extent, by marijuana use and impaired judgement.
con_2_9	Legalization marijuana is tantamount to legalizing speeding	 Legalization marijuana is tantamount to legalizing speeding 
con_2_10	Marijuana's harm to individuals spill over onto communities and society	 Marijuana's harm to individuals spill over onto communities and society To argue that individual consumption of marijuana entails only individual consequences is to argue that individuals exist in something of a vacuum. The reality is that citizens within society are highly interconnected and interdependent. If marijuana use leads to the degradation of an individual in various ways, this creates stresses on other individuals who depend on that individual. For example, an individual may be unable to function properly in their job due to their marijuana use, and this may damage the business they are involved with. This damage, in extreme circumstances, could lead to layoffs of other workers or possibly even the disintegration of a business. Another frequent example is the degradation of a family due to marijuana use, and the subsequent degradation of a church and community. To significant degrees, these social damages can be seen as violations of the liberties of other individuals to the extent that liberties can be defined as the opportunity for individuals to seek fulfillment and happiness. 
con_2_11	Marijuana's public health costs violate tax-payer liberties.	Marijuana's public health costs violate tax-payer liberties.
con_2_12	Marijuana is not a threat to society only because it is illegal	 Marijuana is not a threat to society only because it is illegal
headline_3	Social: Would legalization entail heavy societal costs?
pro_3_1	Illegal marijuana forces consumers to interact with criminal underground	Illegal marijuana forces consumers to interact with criminal underground Presently, cannabis is sold by dealers who have connections with the underworld. The legalization of cannabis will help facilitate the sale of the drug in establishments like Amsterdam’s "coffee houses". This will shift the sale of cannabis away from the criminal underworld. The severance of this ‘criminal link’ will ensure that the users of the drug no longer need to come into contact with organized crime.
pro_3_2	Illegal Marijuana directly produces socially deviant behavior.	Illegal Marijuana directly produces socially deviant behavior.  With Marijuana being illegal, those who participate in it's use are automatically engaging in socially deviant behavior.  This label of socially deviant behavior because of marijuana use does not, however, deter the use of marijuana.  However, marijuana is no more or less a danger to the individual than smoking tobacco.  This is why marijuana users typically refuse to comply with the laws and rules regulating it's use.  Because this socially deviant behavior is also illegal, this increases the amount of money spent policing and housing new criminals, many of which are not distributing marijuana, but have marijuana for personal use.
pro_3_3	What about the social ramifications of not legalizing marijuana?	What about the social ramifications of not legalizing marijuana? My own children were shown REAL marijuana in school so that they knew what it looked and smelled like... then told to call the police if they found any... EVEN IN THEIR OWN HOMES. This is not only a circumvention of constitutional protections against illegal search, but it also serves to break down the family bond and promotes dissension between children and parents. It gives our youth the notion that their loyalties must lie with the state rather than their own families... just like the Hitler youth did. That is social ramification at it's ugliest. Our children are taught in our PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM that use of marijuana is "bad". Being that many religions advocate the use of marijuana in it's rites and rituals, our youth are being taught that certain religions are "bad"... a direct violation of the notion of separation of church and state... and AGAIN perpetrated on our youth. 
pro_3_4	Children have been brainwashed on high costs of marijuana.	Children have been brainwashed on "high costs" of marijuana. It is the contention by proponents of prohibition that our youth "grow up in a society where they have no knowledge of the costs" of marijuana usage. This is false. The fact is, our children are inundated with anti-marijuana propaganda on a daily basis from all sources such as television "public service" announcements, classroom instruction, MANY anti-marijuana children's organizations... and our own government, in that it is currently illegal. They are never allowed the benefits of a non-biased opinion on the subject. They are subjected to "guest speakers" in school who have had very bad experiences from drugs, shown the possible worst case consequences from television show themes... but never given access to the opinions of those who have had GOOD experiences (such as tribal shamen, chemotherapy recipients or glaucoma treatees). We even make it illegal to allow them to see another side by adding drug use as a criteria by which to disallow movie entry to any below a certain age. It is easy to brainwash a generation into believing that something is wrong if you illegalize it and render it socially unacceptable.  That IS loss of liberty; that IS government control of freedom of choice; and that IS social ramification. 
pro_3_5	Legalization of marijuana would make it easier for scientific studies to take place	Legalization of marijuana would make it easier for scientific studies to take place, thereby increasing the public knowledge-base and providing a more accurate picture of the physical, psychological, spiritual and sociologic effects of the drug. Just as the lift of taboo on discussions of a sexual nature in public schools has resulted in a more informed youth as to the dangers of unprotected sex (in the effort to reduce incidents of sexually transmitted diseases and teen pregnancies), so would the increased availability and accuracy of scientific data on marijuana in health and sociologic concerns serve to curb the effectiveness of peer pressure tactics and to reduce the ratio of abuse to responsible use.
con_3_1	Marijuana is the drug for life's losers	 Marijuana is the drug for life's losers If we want to produce a better society, there is some room for "big brother" regulations to prevent citizens from doing harm to themselves. This is particularly appropriate in the context of some individuals not having a "choice" in the matter, in the sense that they grow up in an environment that exposes them to marijuana and in which they don't have any knowledge of marijuana's costs. 
con_3_2	Legalization of marijuana jeopardizes public health	 Legalization of marijuana jeopardizes public health 
con_3_3	Legalization of marijuana would worsen schools performance	 Legalization of marijuana would worsen schools performance Assuming that legalization would lead to increased accessibility and consumption, and that marijuana impairs cognition and learning, it is fair to say that legalization will likely damage student performance in schools.
headline_4	Consumption levels: Will legalization reduce the consumption of marijuana?
pro_4_1	Legalization of drugs will remove the rebellious glamor of it	 Legalization of drugs will remove the rebellious glamor of it Many psychological studies indicate that the attractiveness of a thing is often increased when it is scarce or when it is forbidden. This may have to do with a desire to be unique or to stand out. Some associate it with a frequently youthful desire to be rebellious. Whatever the cause, there is substantial reason to believe that the illegality of marijuana actually increases the appeal of it, and subsequently increases its consumption.
pro_4_2	The Netherlands has lower Marijuana consumption rates than the United States.	The Netherlands has lower Marijuana consumption rates than the United States. The Netherlands, which has permitted the possession and retail sale of marijuana since 1976, actually ranks lower than the United States in the percentage of people who have ever used marijuana in every age category, has a higher age of initiation among those that do try marijuana, and fewer adolescents in the Netherlands than in the United States use other illegal drugs.
pro_4_3	Government research discounts relationship b/w illegality and usage.	Government research discounts relationship b/w illegality and usage. Lloyd Johnston, Ph.D. is a leading federally funded researcher on the subject of marijuana usage rates, yet admits that there have never, to his knowledge, been another study that compared marijuana usage rates in the decriminalized states to rates in the other states in the U.S. other that the one in which researchers concluded that "decriminalization has had virtually no effect either on the marijuana use or on related attitudes and beliefs about marijuana use among American young people in this age group." In fact, the use of marijuana in adolescents has skyrocketed AFTER prohibition. Studies further show that increased penelties for usage have had NO effect on trends in adolescent marijuana use rates either.
con_4_1	The legalization of marijuana will increase consumption	 The legalization of marijuana will increase consumption Legalization of marijuana will make the drug more accessible, affordable, and acceptable, making its increased consumption a near certainty. Empirical evidence with countries that have moved to legalization appears to flush this theory out. Additionally, it will boost drug-related tourism to the given country, which is everything but desirable. 
con_4_2	Legalization of marijuana will make it more accessible.	Legalization of marijuana will make it more accessible.
con_4_3	Legalization of marijuana will make it more affordable.	Legalization of marijuana will make it more affordable.
con_4_4	Illegalization of marijuana helps deter use	 Illegalization of marijuana helps deter use The illegality of marijuana deters consumption through the threat of punishment.
con_4_5	Illegality of marijuana sets moral standard against consumption.	Illegality of marijuana sets moral standard against consumption. Laws provide a clear societal standard. They make it clear what society holds dear and what it rebukes as immoral, harmful, or simply socially undesirable. This creates a symbolic boundary that deters consumption. If this barrier is removed, it may seen as a symbolic act of tolerance and acceptance of the marijuana consumption. This is likely to lead to greater consumption and social harm.
headline_5	Gateway drug: Is Marijuana not a gateway drug?
pro_5_1	There is little evidence that Marijuana is a gateway drug	 There is little evidence that Marijuana is a gateway drug If marijuana was a gateway drug, you would expect to see high numbers of marijuana consumers also being, for instance, cocaine users. But, this correlation does not really exist. In America, for every roughly one hundred marijuana user, there is only one cocaine user. In addition, it is nearly impossible to establish a direct causal link between an individual's marijuana consumption and their subsequent "hard" drug consumption. It is completely possible, for instance, that individuals who choose to partake in marijuana consumption are inherently more risk-taking. Therefore, their choice to try cocaine could be completely causally dissociated from their initial consumption of marijuana.
pro_5_2	Marijuana may be a gateway drug because it's in the drug blackmarket	 Marijuana may be a "gateway drug" because it's in the drug blackmarket Marijuana is often criticized as being a gateway drug to harder drugs, and this is used as a justification for its illegality. Irrespective of a lack of evidence in this regard, there is reason to believe that marijuana's illegality itself could be the cause of Marijuana being a gateway drug. The illegality of marijuana causes its sale, purchase, and consumption to occur in the blackmarket, where the sale, purchase, and consumption of all other hard drugs occur. This means that marijuana's blackmarket existence causes consumers of it to be exposed to a network of other, harder blackmarket drugs, which subsequently increases the likelihood that these consumers will be swayed to try harder drugs. If marijuana was legalized, the sale, purchase, and consumption of marijuana would not take place within these blackmarket, and therefore the link to harder drugs would be broken.
pro_5_3	Alcohol is more of a gateway drug than marijuana.	Alcohol is more of a gateway drug than marijuana. 
con_5_1	Marijuana is a gateway drug	 Marijuana is a gateway drug Marijuana is considered a "soft" drug, as compared with "harder" drugs such as cocaine, heroine, and crystal meth. This is because it is less addictive and generally considered less harmful than these other drugs. But, the problem is that, as a "soft" drug, marijuana acts as a stepping stone or "gateway" to "harder" drugs. Having tried marijuana and having been indoctrinated into the world of "mind-altering" drugs, people are much more likely to then try harder drugs. The illegality of marijuana creates a barrier before this "gateway". 
headline_6	Judicial overload: Would the legalization of marijuana relieve strained courts?
pro_6_1	Far too many people are imprisoned for the possession of marijuana	 Far too many people are imprisoned for the possession of marijuana In America, around 800,000 people are arrested on marijuana related charges each year. This creates a massive strain on court systems and on prisons. The consequences of these strains are far-reaching, including such problems as increased rates of plea bargaining. 
pro_6_2	Special marijuana courts do not relieve strain on court system.	Special marijuana courts do not relieve strain on court system. While some argue that special courts bypass the normal court process and thus relieve court strains. But, they are still a part of the judicial process, strain the system, and cost taxpayer money.  
pro_6_3	Marijuana consumers are typically not convicted of a crime	Marijuana consumers are typically not convicted of a crime  Many marijuana offenders are not convicted of a crime.  This means that most of the money being put into law enforcement to battle marijuana results in no convictions.  It is estimated that $1.6 billion is spent each year policing marijuana crimes, but most of these crimes lead to no conviction.  Therefor, millions of dollars are thrown into a system that typically makes no difference in the issue of marijuana; all the while putting the government deeper into financial debt.  By legalizing marijuana, the tax that can be put into place would possibly be able to bring in an estimated $2 billion according to offered California legislation.
con_6_1	Marijuana consumers are typically not convicted of a crime	 Marijuana consumers are typically not convicted of a crime While some argue that marijuana prohibition overburdens courts with marijuana possession cases, the reality is that the many arrests that occur each year for marijuana possession do not actually lead to charges and court cases. Therefore, marijuana possession laws are not the judicial burden that legalization advocates often make them out to be.
con_6_2	Increased crime from marijuana legalization adds to judicial burdens	 Increased crime from marijuana legalization adds to judicial burdens Many contend that marijuana's illegality actually leads to more crime, particularly in organized crime, which adds to judicial burdens. 
con_6_3	Marijuana special courts can help deal with judicial overload	 Marijuana special courts can help deal with judicial overload This is an appropriate response to any strains placed on the judicial system by marijuana cases. Prohibition is a concession.
headline_7	Crime: Would legalization help reduce crime?
pro_7_1	Legalizing marijuana will decrease crime by ending criminality of drugs.	Legalizing marijuana will decrease crime by ending criminality of drugs. Smoking marijana is not forbidden in the Netherlands. But, it is forbidden to grow marijuana,and to buy marijuana in great quantities. And there is the cause of crime. If you want to make consumption of marijuana legal, then producing, growing and selling marijuana ought to be legal too. Now producers of marijuana are criminals. It is the law, in this case, that makes the crime. 
pro_7_2	Legalizing marijuana will reduce profits of traffickers and gangs	 Legalizing marijuana will reduce profits of traffickers and gangs  With reduced profits for illegal marijuana sales, sellers of illegal marijuana will decrease.  This is because, there will be no need for consumers to purchase marijuana from an illegal dealer, when it can be legally purchased.
pro_7_3	Drug legalization will reduce police corruption in illicit trade	 Drug legalization will reduce police corruption in illicit trade
pro_7_4	Rise of criminal acts associated with Marijuana addiction is directly related to a prohibition.	Rise of criminal acts associated with Marijuana addiction is directly related to a prohibition. The main reasons is because the use is prohibited, then the price is high and is hard to obtain, that conduct to a criminal acts to obtain the drug.
pro_7_5	Contradictory arguments by opposition.	Contradictory arguments by opposition. We cannot, in the same breath, say that crime will rise if marijuana is legalized because users will commit more crimes to obtain it, yet maintain that prohibition and harsher penalties are now keeping usage down. If it is maintained that marijuana users will commit VIOLENT offenses (such as burglary or armed robbery) to obtain the substance, how can the position be maintained that current prohibitory legislation (which is NOT a violent offense) be the effective threat of penalty? 
pro_7_6	Inequality of comparison.	Inequality of comparison. Legalization in some countries has led to marginal crime increases in those countries (and some other countries in crime reduction), yet we are the United States of America, where we grow up believing we have the right to be free from the oppressions of unreasonable governmental action. In this respect we differ from those other countries at the most basic level, therefore rendering comparison inaccurate. Nearly all marijuana users believe the prohibition to be unconstitutional (correct assumption or not) and unreasonable, therefore the use of marijuana in the U.S.A. is not effected by prohibitory laws because the vast majority of users already see such laws as an infringement of their God-given rights. This is not just another unpopular law in a country which isn't guaranteed freedom and liberty. Marijuana prohibition is more widely perceived by users in the U.S. as an affront to all that this country stands for. When an oppression is perceived in THIS country, we tend to defend it with more vehemence than most; simple defiance becomes necessary patriotism. In short, users believe their actions to be more patriotic than unlawful. If the perceived threat to our freedoms is removed (i.e. that is replace prohibition with taxation and regulation) then the otherwise law-abiding citizens that are users can no longer use self-perceived patriotism as an excuse for being unlawful and will tend to resume their otherwise lawful lives (as was seen when alcohol prohibition ended).
con_7_1	Marijuana use leads to crime	 Marijuana use leads to crime
con_7_2	Legalizing marijuana will not decrease crimes committed to buy drug	 Legalizing marijuana will not decrease crimes committed to buy drug 
con_7_3	Marijuana legalization will not end illegal trafficking	 Marijuana legalization will not end illegal trafficking
con_7_4	Marijuana legalization does not undermine organized crime and mafias	 Marijuana legalization does not undermine organized crime and mafias
headline_8	Prohibition feasibility: Is the prohibition of marijuana infeasible?
pro_8_1	Marijuana prohibition is impossible to achieve	 Marijuana prohibition is impossible to achieve
pro_8_2	Marijuana prohibition is equally impossible as alcohol prohibition	 Marijuana prohibition is equally impossible as alcohol prohibition
headline_9	Economics: Would the legalization of marijuana be economical?
pro_9_1	Legal marijuana can be taxed for revenue gain	 Legal marijuana can be taxed for revenue gain According to a study conducted by Harvard Professor Dr. Jeffrey Miron, replacing marijuana prohibition with a system of taxation similar to that integrated on alcoholic and tobacco products would result in annual savings and revenues of between $10 and $14 billion per year. Leading the endorsing economists are three Nobel Laureates in economics: Dr. George Akerlof of the University of California, Berkeley, Dr. Milton Friedman of the Hoover Institute, and Dr. Vernon Smith of George Mason University. Akerlof, Friedman, and Smith along with over 500 other economists are supporting Dr. Jeffrey Miron's study and are calling for a debate assessing the logic and rationale behind marijuana prohibition. Dr. Jeffrey Miron's study concludes that removing the prohibitive status on marijuana and replacing it with legal regulation would result in approximately saving $7.7 billion in government expenditures on prohibition enforcement; $2.4 billion at the federal level and $5.3 billion at state and local levels.
pro_9_2	Legalizing marijuana would free up resources spent on enforcement	 Legalizing marijuana would free up resources spent on enforcement
con_9_1	Added health costs from legal marijuana will outweigh new tax revenues	 Added health costs from legal marijuana will outweigh new tax revenues If consumption increases from marijuana use, as most expect, clear health costs will rise. This may negate any tax revenue benefits from legalization. And, the long-term costs may grow exponentially over time.
con_9_2	Increased legal marijuana consumption will decrease economic productivity	Increased legal marijuana consumption will decrease economic productivity If marijuana consumption can be concluded as leading to decreased cognition, short-term member, and motivation, and if legalization can concluded as likely to raise consumption, than the result of legalization will be to marginally decrease productivity in the market place. 
con_9_3	Legal marijuana's social costs will negate new tax revenues.	Legal marijuana's social costs will negate new tax revenues. The degradation of family and community relations has major economic costs. These are important support networks. If marijuana disrupts them even marginally, the government becomes obliged to support those who's social networks and communities have weakened due to marijuana use.
headline_10	Legal regulation: Would legal regulation of marijuana be superior to a ban?
pro_10_1	Marijuana legalization would be heavily regulated	 Marijuana legalization would be heavily regulated
pro_10_2	Marijuana should be controlled like other vice products	 Marijuana should be controlled like other vice products
pro_10_3	Legalization of marijuana would place potency under regulation	 Legalization of marijuana would place potency under regulation
headline_11	Race: Is prohibition enforcement racially biased?
pro_11_1	Arrests and convictions for marijuana use appear racially biased	 Arrests and convictions for marijuana use appear racially biased
headline_12	Potency: Is it wrong to think marijuana is growing in potency and does it matter?
pro_12_1	Potent pot is not a new phenomena	 Potent pot is not a new phenomena 
pro_12_2	Users simply smoke less of potent pot to achieve the same high	 Users simply smoke less of potent pot to achieve the same high There is nothing sinister or dangerous about potent pot. Assuming that people will smoke until they are as high as they want to be, and then will stop, smokers of potent pot may simply have to take only one hit to get as high as they want, as opposed to a full joint with less potent pot. It is similar to the consumption of spirits as compared to beer. And, if adults are trusted to consume spirits responsibly, why not potent pot?
pro_12_3	Potent pot is better for the lungs; requires less smoke inhalation	 Potent pot is better for the lungs; requires less smoke inhalation
pro_12_4	Legalization of marijuana would place potency under regulation	 Legalization of marijuana would place potency under regulation
pro_12_5	Why would marijuana potency matter when it doesn't for alcohol	 Why would marijuana potency matter when it doesn't for alcohol
pro_12_6	Marijuana ban actually incentivized production of higher potencies	 Marijuana ban actually incentivized production of higher potencies 
con_12_1	The potency of marijuana is much higher today	 The potency of marijuana is much higher today
con_12_2	Growing potency of marijuana increases risks.	Growing potency of marijuana increases risks.
con_12_3	Marijuana legalization will not succeed in regulating potency	 Marijuana legalization will not succeed in regulating potency
headline_13	Public opinion: Does the public want to legalize marijuana?
pro_13_1	The public is sick of wasting tax dollars on marijuana.	The public is sick of wasting tax dollars on marijuana. The public is sick of the billions of wasted dollars per year just to lock people up, with no effect on drug availability.
con_13_1	A majority of dutch disapprove of their country's lax drug policies	 A majority of dutch disapprove of their country's lax drug policies
headline_14	International treaty: Would marijuana legalization contravene some treaties?
con_14_1	Many countries are signatories to treaties prohibiting marijuana	 Many countries are signatories to treaties prohibiting marijuana
con_14_2	UN Conventions on Narcotics and the Rights of the Child bans marijuana	 UN Conventions on Narcotics and the Rights of the Child bans marijuana
