title	Abolition of nuclear weapons
question	Should Nuclear Weapons be abolished?
headline_1	Moral: Is abolishing nuclear weapons a necessary moral act?
pro_1_1	Those that seek nuclear weapons are more likely to use them.	Those that seek nuclear weapons are more likely to use them. The people that are most likely to use nuclear weapons are the people that are most likely to want to target civilians. It is commonly accepted that any responsible, accountable government will refrain from using nuclear weapons against a civilian population. It is naive to believe that someone who resorts to using this type of weapon would discriminate. 
pro_1_2	Nuclear weapons immorally threaten mass murder	 Nuclear weapons immorally threaten mass murder. Over the past fifty years, we have seen a general tendency towards limited warfare and precision weapons, allowing military objectives to be achieved with minimal loss of civilian life. The entire point of nuclear weapons, however, is their massive, indiscriminate destructive power. Their use could kill tens of thousands of civilians directly, and their catastrophic environmental after-effects would harm many more all around the world. These effects could never be morally acceptable.
pro_1_3	The use of nuclear weapons is undemocratic	 The use of nuclear weapons is undemocratic The decision to use nuclear weapons is made by a very small group of people at the top of a nation's leadership. Given the fact that the use of nuclear weapons can affect millions of people and even civilization itself, the use of nuclear weapons can be seen as highly undemocratic.
pro_1_4	Many states that could build nuclear weapons haven't.	Many states that could build nuclear weapons haven't. Many states are technically capable of building nuclear weapons, but have made a moral choice not to. Nuclear states should respect the responsibility this demonstrates on the part of non-nuclear stats, and should correspondingly take action to reduce their own stockpiles. 
con_1_1	Nukes help deter conflict, which is morally legitimate.	Nukes help deter conflict, which is morally legitimate. For those who didn't study the military doctrine of MAD (mutually assured destruction), the doctrine proves that nobody would be mad enough to start launching nukes. Look at Saddam Hussein, look at Ahmademijad, look at Kim-Jong-Il. Why don't they start launching nukes? That's because if they lauch nukes, other countries would launch nukes at them too. They all know that pressing one button can destroy the world (and thus destroy them too). They all know that even sending one division to a country to wreck havoc means siging a death warrant. Look at the last 50 years or so. Has there been any big wars involving or not involoving nukes? Come on, it's paranoia.  
con_1_2	Using nuclear weapons would be a tragedy; but so is using any weapon.	Using nuclear weapons would be a tragedy; but so is using any weapon. The reason for maintaining an effective nuclear arsenal is in fact to prevent war. By making the results of conflict catastrophic, a strategic deterrent discourages conflict. The Cold War was in fact one of the most peaceful times in history, particularly in Europe, largely because of the two superpowers' nuclear deterrents.
con_1_3	Nuclear deterrence is a superior to doctrines of preventive war	 Nuclear deterrence is a superior to doctrines of preventive war On the basis that nuclear weapons can help deter even rogue states from using WMD, it becomes unnecessary to implement a preventive war doctrine to prevent rogue nations from ever acquiring WMD; nuclear deterrence is sufficient.
con_1_4	Nuclear umbrellas are the only reason why some state are non-nuclear.	Nuclear umbrellas are the only reason why some state are non-nuclear. While some argue that some modern states have opted not to develop nuclear weapons, making it unfair that other states have opted to create them, this ignores the fact that these non-nuclear states often only have the luxury to be non-nuclear due to their protection under the umbrella of a nuclear state.
con_1_5	Nuclear deterrence need not target civilian populations	 Nuclear deterrence need not target civilian populations While critics of nuclear weapons often cite the targeting of civilian populations as morally repugnant, this civilian targeting need not be included in the theory of "nuclear deterrence". It is possible to target assets of a country's leadership, ensuring the dislocation of the leadership. 
con_1_6	Nuclear weapons are necessary for some difficult military targets	Nuclear weapons are necessary for some difficult military targets.
headline_2	Deterrence: Is nuclear deterrence irrelevant today?
pro_2_1	Terrorists are not deterred by the threat of nuclear weapons	 Terrorists are not deterred by the threat of nuclear weapons Terrorists are frequently willing to kill themselves to commit acts of terrorism. Therefore, the threat of retaliatory death and destruction against terrorists will not create a level of fear within them that will "deter" them from committing an initial terrorist act. 
pro_2_2	The idea of a so-called 'nuclear deterrent' no longer applies.	The idea of a so-called 'nuclear deterrent' no longer applies. Peace during the Cold War was maintained only by a balance of power - neither superpower had an advantage large enough to be confident of victory. This eventually became the doctrine of Mutually Assured Destruction: both sides had sufficient weaponry to totally annihilate one another, and potentially the whole world. However, there is no longer a balance of power. With the proliferation of nuclear weapons, some rogue states may develop the ability to strike at enemies who have no nuclear weapons of their own. It is not clear that the major nuclear powers would then strike back at the aggressor. This is further complicated by the fact that most of the emerging nuclear threats would not be from legitimate governments but from dictators and terrorist groups. Would it ever be acceptable to kill thousands of civilians for the actions of extremists?
con_2_1	Great power rivalries maintain importance of nuclear deterrence	 Great power rivalries maintain importance of nuclear deterrence Great power rivalries persist between such countries as the China, Russia, and the United States, even though the United States' is more powerful at this time. Nuclear deterrence remains a factor in the relative stability that persists between these great powers, and the abolition of nuclear weapons would eliminate this stability.
con_2_2	Nuclear deterrence remains important in the post-Cold War era	 Nuclear deterrence remains important in the post-Cold War era Many believe that the end of the Cold War spelled the end of the notion of nuclear deterrence. Yet, nuclear deterrence remains relevant and an important element of international stability. As mentioned above, great power rivalries between China, United States, and Russia seem to persist, and nuclear weapons help maintain the level of sobriety between them. 
con_2_3	Nuclear weapons deter even rogue states	 Nuclear weapons deter even rogue states Rogue states are often thought to be irrational, making it impossible to deter them with the threat of nuclear weapons. But the leaders of rogue states  are focused primarily on maintaining power, and will not jeopardize that power by taking actions that could lead to a retaliatory response by a nuclear power.
con_2_4	Nuclear weapons deter rogue states from giving WMD to terrorists	 Nuclear weapons deter rogue states from giving WMD to terrorists Rogue leaders are unlikely to give WMD or nuclear weapons to terrorists if it will jeopardize the existence of their country or their grip on power. And, they are highly unlikely to trust terrorists to take measures to reduce the risk that the source of their weapons is revealed. 
con_2_5	Small states benefit from having a small nuclear deterrent	 Small states benefit from having a small nuclear deterrent For small states, even a small nuclear deterrent can be very beneficial to their national interests.
con_2_6	The deterrent principle still stands.	The deterrent principle still stands. During the Gulf War, for example, one of the factors which prevented Iraq from launching missiles tipped with chemical weapon warheads against Israel was the threat the USA would retaliate with a nuclear strike. Although there is no longer as formal a threat of retaliation as there was during the Cold War, the very possibility that the use of nuclear weapons by a rogue state could be met a retaliatory strike is too great a threat to ignore. Moreover, although the citizens of the current nuclear powers may be against the use of force against civilians, their opinions would rapidly change if they found weapons of mass destruction being used against them.
headline_3	Security: Do nuclear weapons make the world less secure?
pro_3_1	Nuclear weapons make the world less secure	Nuclear weapons make the world less secure. With the many risks associated with nuclear weapons, including accidental firings and mis-calculation, the risks may very well be higher than the presumed benefits.
pro_3_2	Nuclear weapons must be abolished to avoid nuclear accidents	 Nuclear weapons must be abolished to avoid nuclear accidents Accidents are a common occurrence with nuclear weapons. Nuclear submarines have sunken many times in history. Military airplanes holding nuclear weapons have crashed in history has well. Nuclear missiles in silos, too, have exploded unexpectedly. These accidents can be minimized by never fully eliminated. The chances are good that at some point in the future a catastrophic nuclear accident will occur. 
pro_3_3	Nuclear submarine accidents are a global hazard	 Nuclear submarine accidents are a global hazard Numerous nuclear submarines have accidentally sunk. Some of these have fallen to the bottom of the ocean where they are never to be recovered. The problem with this is that the nuclear missiles on board are likely to leak radioactive materials into the environment, causing significant harm.
pro_3_4	Nuclear weapons tests are a global hazard	 Nuclear weapons tests are a global hazard 
pro_3_5	Nuclear weapons have not reduced the risk of war	 Nuclear weapons have not reduced the risk of war Nuclear states through the Cold War and beyond have been nearly five times as likely as non-nuclear states to be engaged, at any given time, in an international conflict. 
pro_3_6	States that have abandoned nuclear weapons have remained safe	 States that have abandoned nuclear weapons have remained safe While there are often fears about the result of a country abandoning nuclear weapons, all states  have remained safe in the international system. The possession of nuclear weapons does little to secure a state.
pro_3_7	Nuclear weapons encourage further nuclear proliferation	 Nuclear weapons encourage further nuclear proliferation To be a part of the so-called 'nuclear club' is seen as a matter of great prestige; when India and Pakistan recently declared their nuclear capability, it was seen in both countries as increasing their international status. Also, nations opposed to a nuclear power feel that they need to develop their own capability in order to protect themselves. The declared nuclear powers must therefore take the lead in disarmament, as an example for the rest of the world.
pro_3_8	Nuclear weapons could fall into terrorists' hands	 Nuclear weapons could fall into terrorists' hands. This is particularly true in Russia, which now had control of all of the nuclear weapons which were distributed around the former Soviet Union. The military is disastrously underfunded; technicians and officers who were used to a high standard of living are now finding themselves without pay, sometimes for years. At the same time, other states and extremist groups are willing to pay substantial sums for their services, and to gain access to nuclear weapons. The danger of a weapon being stolen, or - in consideration of the current political instability in Russia - a nuclear base being taken over by disgruntled members of the military or other extremists, can only be ended by destroying the weapons.
con_3_1	Nuclear deterrence helps prevent conflict	 Nuclear deterrence helps prevent conflict Of course not. Keeping nukes make the world more secure. Nukes make great leverage. That's why Saddam Hussein, Kim-Jong-Il, Ahmademijad and countless others couldn't press the red button themselves. Nukes make war virtually impossible since war means firing of nukes which means a big bang! (All dead including the aggressor.) Nukes make great leverage, and also act (in a way) like an international forcible police. 
con_3_2	US nuclear weapons reduce the intensity of international conflicts	 US nuclear weapons reduce the intensity of international conflicts The nuclear arsenal of the United States creates a nuclear deterrence umbrella for its allies that helps protect them against various international threats.
con_3_3	US nuclear weapons help deter and constrain Russia	 US nuclear weapons help deter and constrain Russia Russia's foreign policy under President Putin became highly ambitious and potentially expansionary. Nuclear weapons, particularly those of the United States, play a role in constraining Russian power in this way. 
con_3_4	The plutonium in nuclear warheads cannot simply be destroyed.	The plutonium in nuclear warheads cannot simply be destroyed. Instead, they must be stored in special facilities; in Russia, there are some thousand sites were military nuclear material is stored. It is producing this plutonium which is in fact the most difficult stage in building a weapon - by dismantling missiles, you are therefore not destroying their most dangerous part, and hence the risk of theft does not decrease. In fact, it may increase: missile silos in Russia are still the most heavily funded part of the military, whereas in recent years it has become clear that security at storage facilities is often inadequate. Moreover, it is far easier to steal a relatively small quantity of plutonium than an entire Intercontinental Ballistic Missile. Ironically, the safest place for plutonium in present-day Russia may be on top of such a missile.
con_3_5	Nuclear weapons may protect humans from threats from space.	Nuclear weapons may protect humans from threats from space. Nuclear weapons could protect the human race, all other living species on the planet, and the planet itself should it come under threat of alien invasion, a massive asteroid, and so forth if they happen to be the only suitable defense available at the time. This suggests that keeping at least a 'sufficient amount' of such weapons would be beneficial for survival. 
headline_4	International law: Is abolishing nuclear weapons consistent with international law?
pro_4_1	Abolishing nuclear weapons is part of fulfilling existing obligations	 Abolishing nuclear weapons is part of fulfilling existing obligations 
pro_4_2	The threat or use of nuclear weapons is illegal	 The threat or use of nuclear weapons is illegal The deterrent effect of nuclear weapons depends on the threat of nuclear weapons to civilian populations of an opposing country. Yet, even the implicit threat of the use of force against civilian forces violates all international legal protections provided to civilians in time of war.
con_4_1	The threat or use of nuclear weapons is legal in desperate defense	 The threat or use of nuclear weapons is legal in desperate defense. If a country has no other means to defend itself against an imminent threat than by the use of nuclear weapons, a defensive nuclear strike may be legally defensible. If, for example, the United States initiated a large-scale nuclear attack against Russia, Russia would be legally justified in launching a large-scale nuclear strike against the United States in an effort to eliminate the threat and defend itself.
headline_5	Economics: Are nuclear weapons a major economic drain?
pro_5_1	Nuclear weapons are a drain on resources	 Nuclear weapons are a drain on resources Nuclear weapons are very expensive to build and expensive to maintain. countries should not waste their energies and finances on these weapons.
con_5_1	Nuclear deterrence is important in protecting economic interests	 Nuclear deterrence is important in protecting economic interests Nuclear deterrence, by helping limit the potential for large-scale armed conflict between states, is important to protecting national economic interests.
headline_6	Feasibility: Is full denuclearization feasible?
pro_6_1	A nuclear abolition treaty is feasible with worldwide unanimity	 A nuclear abolition treaty is feasible with worldwide unanimity The only way nuclear abolition can succeed is if it is unanimous and obligatory worldwide. It cannot be like the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty where it is optional and non-unanimous. 
pro_6_2	A binding nuclear ban treaty could work	 A binding nuclear ban treaty could work 
pro_6_3	States could be compelled via guilt to sign a nuclear weapons ban	 States could be compelled via guilt to sign a nuclear weapons ban
pro_6_4	A nuclear weapons ban could work with a rigorous inspection system	 A nuclear weapons ban could work with a rigorous inspection system  
pro_6_5	A nuclear weapons ban could accompany a chem and biological weapons ban	 A nuclear weapons ban could accompany a chem and biological weapons ban This would help address the concern that, without nuclear weapons, the threat of chemical and biological weapons could not be deterred.
pro_6_6	Israel could be compelled to sign a nuclear weapons ban	 Israel could be compelled to sign a nuclear weapons ban
con_6_1	Modern nuclear powers are unlikely to denuclearize	 Modern nuclear powers are unlikely to denuclearize There is a clear strategic foreign policy advantage offered to nations with nuclear powers. Denuclearization threatens to reduce these strategic advantages. It is, therefore, unlikely that nuclear powers will opt to eliminate their nuclear arsenals. 
con_6_2	Nuclear powers may reduce stockpiles but won't fully denuclearize	 Nuclear powers may reduce stockpiles but won't fully denuclearize Many nuclear powers such as the United States and Russia have huge nuclear weapons stockpiles and are willing to reduce them. But, the are only willing to reduce them to a point where their ability to deter adversaries is still maintained. 
con_6_3	Nuclear abolition could not prevent covert nuclear programs	 Nuclear abolition could not prevent covert nuclear programs While it may be possible to, at one point, achieve the abolition of all nuclear weapons, it is not possible to ensure that some states would not attempt to engage covert nuclear weapons programs. It's not possible to implement sufficient enforcement mechanisms to prevent a rogue state, for example, for covertly developing nuclear weapons. And, without nuclear arsenals, "well-behaved" states would be less capable of compelling rogue states to comply with the ban.
con_6_4	Abolition can't un-invent nuclear weapons	Abolition can't un-invent nuclear weapons The world knows how to create nuclear weapons. In fact, after over fifty years since the invention of the atomic bomb, the technology is fairly well known and old knowledge. This knowledge and the ease of constructing a nuclear weapon makes it difficult to attempt to constrain states from attempting to build the weapon, particularly when the incentives would be so high to "go nuclear" in a nuclear-weapons-free world.
con_6_5	It's too tempting to build a nuclear weapon in a non-nuclear world	 It's too tempting to build a nuclear weapon in a non-nuclear world In a non-nuclear world, a state that builds even a single nuclear weapons achieves an enormous leap in geopolitical strength. The first dozen or so nuclear weapons would carry a substantial amount of geopolitical power in the international system. Therefore, the incentive to build these first nuclear weapons would be very high and hard to resist, particularly for rogue or historically less powerful countries. 
con_6_6	It's not possible to abolish nuclear weapons now that the are at large.	It's not possible to abolish nuclear weapons now that the are at large. Nuclear technology exists, and there is no way to un-invent it. Much as the ideal of global disarmament is fine, the reality is that it is impossible: it takes only one rogue state to maintain a secret nuclear capability to make the abolition of the major powers' deterrents unworkable. Without the threat of a retaliatory strike, this state could attack others at will.
con_6_7	It's not possible to stop nuclear weapons now	It's not possible to stop nuclear weapons now. They are in too many places and those that are out there aren't going to be found easily, we don't even have a comprehensive list of what countries have them so enforcing it will be hard to do.  And do you really think that North Korea will give them up?
con_6_8	Nuclear weapons can not just be simply destroyed or dismantled,	Nuclear weapons can not just be simply destroyed or dismantled, the radioactive element within the warhead cannot just be turned off or put into storage. The only thing that can be done that is beneficial and not harmful is to put them to use in a nuclear power plant but to build all those costs to much and there fore is unfeasible and there fore unthinkable. As fore destroying them that would require detonation and if you wish to rid the world of these then you wouldn't want that so there fore there is nothing that can be done.
headline_7	Support: Is the abolition of nuclear weapons widely supported?
pro_7_1	Many leaders support abolishing nuclear weapons	 Many leaders support abolishing nuclear weapons An impressive list of historic international leaders support the abolition of nuclear weapons. These leaders include Sam Nunn, Henry Kissinger, and Michail Gorbachev among others. Given that many of these leaders were heavily involved in the Cold War and nuclear deterrence national security formation, and that many of them are hard-core security "realists", their calls for the abolition of nuclear weapons is certainly significant.
con_7_1	No one who has them complains about it.	No one who has them complains about it. Realy only the contries that don't have them actuly try to abolish them because then they would be equals. However the countries that posses them are in no hurry to spend millions upon millions of dollars to get rid of their best deturent. The world powers may talk about how they want to get rid of them but none of them actuly want to, they are realy just trying to seem considerint and kind.   
