title	Three Gorges Dam
question	Is the Three Gorges Dam a good idea?
headline_1	Energy needs: Is the TGD an important supplier of China's energy needs?
pro_1_1	Three Gorges Dam supplies massive quantities of needed electricity	 Three Gorges Dam supplies massive quantities of needed electricity The dam is set to produce 18,000 megawatts of electricity equivalent to 18 nuclear power plants or fifty million tons of coal. This amounts to 11% of China's electricity. This is a massive amount of electricity that is desperately needed by a population of over one billion that is rapidly emerging out of poverty and into modernity.
pro_1_2	TGD helps lower China's demand pressures on world energy supplies	 TGD helps lower China's demand pressures on world energy supplies Energy resources are scarce globally. Without the TGD, China would have to get more energy from abroad or from coal and would cause the more rapid depletion of scarce resources.
pro_1_3	The TGD taps China's underexploited hydroelectric potential	 The TGD taps China's underexploited hydroelectric potential China is utilizing only roughly 1/4 of its hydroelectric potential. Given its growing energy demands, it is obvious that it should tap its amazing renewable hydroelectric resources, and TGD is simply the first logical step. 
con_1_1	China needs greater energy efficiency not the TGD	 China needs greater energy efficiency not the TGD China is very inefficient in its energy use. If it were to increase efficiency, its energy demands would shrink substantially, or at least they wouldn't spiral upwards as fast as they are. The Three Gorges Dam, therefore, might not have been necessary if China had adopted a more efficient approach.
con_1_2	The TGD neglects rural population energy needs	 The TGD neglects rural population energy needs The Three Gorges Dam is primarily set to supply urban energy needs. Rural poor are largely neglected. This fits in to the broader difficulties the rural poor have been having in attracting the attention and consideration the Chinese Communist Party. So, while the Three Gorges Dam is supplying the energy needs of Chinese, it seems tailored to favor only a particular urban class. 
headline_2	Environment: Is the Three Gorges Dam benefiting the environment?
pro_2_1	The TGD is a hydroelectric, renewable-energy project	The TGD is a hydroelectric, renewable-energy project Hydroelectric is a renewable energy resource. This is highly important in a world where non-renewable energy resources are depleting rapidly.
pro_2_2	China is taking steps to limit garbage glut behind TGD	 China is taking steps to limit garbage glut behind TGD Reservoirs worldwide are being more or less beset by floats, as it intercepts floats from upstream while it holds water. The float pollution had existed before the TGD constructed. Preventing upstream garbage floats from piling up at the TGD has been implemented since the TGD began to store water and generate electricity. 
pro_2_3	China's Three Gorges Dam helps reduce the risk of flooding	 China's Three Gorges Dam helps reduce the risk of flooding Floods are not only of concern to humans, but also to local wildlife and habitats. The TGD helps limit these risks as water levels can be controlled by the level of openness of the damn.
pro_2_4	Hydroelectric power from the TGD is much cleaner than coal	 Hydroelectric power from the TGD is much cleaner than coal. While there may be some environmental costs associated with the TGD, it is important to keep in mind that the only primary energy alternative to the TGD is coal energy. But coal is a major environmental hazard both on the local level, where it covers Chinese cities with lung-damaging pollution, and on the global level in the context of global warming (coal is one of the worst greenhouse gas emitters). Therefore, the TGD is the lesser of evils. 
pro_2_5	The Three Gorges Dam has helped reduce oil production and emission.	The Three Gorges Dam has helped reduce oil production and emission. The use of the TGD has made electric power more efficient and abundant. In fact, statistics show that as the TGD is being utilized more and more, oil production and emission have decreased due to alternative methods of energy.
pro_2_6	China is acting to reduce downstream flooding risks	 China is acting to reduce downstream flooding risks
con_2_1	The hydroelectric TGD should not be considered renewable due to social, environmental costs.	The hydroelectric TGD should not be considered renewable due to social, environmental costs. Many do not consider hydroelectric energy "renewable" as it depletes the surrounding environment and permanently displaces millions of people. These resources cannot be "renewed".
con_2_2	The TGD will kill water life in the Yangze river	 The TGD will kill water life in the Yangze river The creation of the dam and associated reservoir has impacts both upstream from the dam and downstream. It will change the temperature of the water, the velocity and direction of the river flow, the surrounding climate so that affects 300 species of fish and 47 rare or endangered species in this area.
con_2_3	Floating garbage is piling up behind the TGD	 Floating garbage is piling up behind the TGD When droughts occur  in China, as occurred in 2006, garbage can pile up in the basin behind the damn. Then, when the basin begins to fill back up with water, this garbage is lifted to float on the surface where it is both visually unappealing and damaging to the environment. The damage is particularly acute for local wildlife that suffer from higher chemical levels in their habitat or that become ensnared in the garbage and die. 
con_2_4	The TGD causes damaging landslides	 The TGD causes damaging landslides The reservoir created behind the Three Gorges Dam waterlogs the riverside and destabalizes steep hillsides. This can lead to devastating landslides with costs in human lives, geologically, environmentally, and economically. These problems will extend for 60 Kilometers, the length of the reservoir, with the potential to cause massive amounts of damage and suffering over time. 
con_2_5	Three Gorges Dam damages water quality	 Three Gorges Dam damages water quality The reservoir of the Three Gorges Dam is, similar to other dams, fostering algae blooms and elevated levels of phosphate and nitrate pollutants that are damaging to water quality for both the wildlife and for human consumption. Because the reservoir is so massive, the effect on water quality is going to be on a scale never seen before, particularly as tributaries coming off of the 60 kilometer reservoir  are experiencing the ill effects as well.   
con_2_6	The Three Gorges Dam has submerged mines, resulting in pollution	 The Three Gorges Dam has submerged mines, resulting in pollution 
con_2_7	The TGD encourages other damaging big dams in China	 The TGD encourages other damaging big dams in China The Three Gorges Dam has crated a precedent for the construction of many more massive dams, which are the most damaging kind. 
con_2_8	Three Gorges Dam could increase downstream flooding	 Three Gorges Dam could increase downstream flooding Due to sediment deposits and erosion down stream, flooding may actually be more likely. So, while flooding can be controlled upstream, these benefits may be negated by downstream effects.
headline_3	Economics: Is the Three Gorges Dam benefiting China's economy?
pro_3_1	TGD will substantially benefit China's economic development	 TGD will substantially benefit China's economic development Energy is critical to economic development, particularly in a country where heavy industry is the future. By supplying roughly 10% of China's electricity, this dam adds to economic production like no other single dam has in history. This will be critical to China's economic development moving forward.
pro_3_2	Three Gorges Dam improves navigability of upstream waterways	 Three Gorges Dam improves navigability of upstream waterways It does so by increasing the depth of the river. Increased navigability is incredibly important for commerce, as much larger ships will be able to ship goods much more easily in the region, and from the inland to the coast. This will open up markets and stimulate economic activity.
pro_3_3	Three Gorges Dam benefits tourism in China	 Three Gorges Dam benefits tourism in China The Three Gorges Dam is one of the greatest engineering feats in the history of the world. It is sure to draw a significant number of tourists, with many subsequent economic benefits.
pro_3_4	The Three Gorges Dam will help citrus production	 The Three Gorges Dam will help citrus production The reservoir of the dam will create a humid climate in the vicinity, which is ideal for citrus production.
con_3_1	The TGD does not economically benefit the displaced	 The TGD does not economically benefit the displaced While there certainly are economic benefits from the Three Gorges Dam, the economic shock that the dam has caused to over a million displaced individuals and potentially millions more must also be taken into account. Does the slight economic gain for the average Chinese person outweigh the severity of the shock to the couple of millions that were displaced and whose livelihoods were destroyed?
con_3_2	The Three Gorges Dam reservoir displaces productive land and people.	The Three Gorges Dam reservoir displaces productive land and people. 
con_3_3	Globalization pushed the TGD dam forward without pause for debate	 Globalization pushed the TGD dam forward without pause for debate The Three Gorges Dam was going to happen whether the environmental and social costs were considered too high or not. The economic gains were seen as of primary importance in the context of the globalizing world economy.
headline_4	Social: Are the social and human impacts of the dam positive?
pro_4_1	The TGD helps limit the risk of floods in the region.	The TGD helps limit the risk of floods in the region. This would prevent the disasters that have plagued the people of central China for years, including the '30-year flood’ in the summer of 1931 [which] inundated 8.5 million acres of farmland and cost 150,000 lives. Millions were made homeless.[1]
pro_4_2	Three Gorges Dam gives China added respect in the world.	Three Gorges Dam gives China added respect in the world. As the greatest dam on earth, the Three Gorges Dam will bring added respect to China in the world and in its foreign policy.
pro_4_3	The Chinese people are very proud and supportive of the Three Gorges Dam.	The Chinese people are very proud and supportive of the Three Gorges Dam. The vast majority of Chinese support the Three Gorges Dam, desire the electricity it will produce, and take pride in this historic engineering feat. This is good for China, its people, and its future.
pro_4_4	The TGD helps to alleviate drought.	The TGD helps to alleviate drought.The Yangtze, which is 6,300 km long, usually experiences a dry season between November and April. This is often followed by spring flooding.Cargo ships are often stranded in the sections around Yichang, Wuhan and Jingzhou of Hubei Province, and Jiujiang, Hukou of the neighboring Jiangxi Province and block the route. The TGD can abate the effect of drought by controlling the water discharge to maintain normal shipping along the China's longest river,.
con_4_1	The TGD has displaced too many Chinese	 The TGD has displaced too many Chinese The Dam initially displaced round 1.5 million people and may displace millions more with new plans to raise the levels of the reservoir. That is a massive number of displacements that cannot be taken lightly even in a country with a population over one billion.
con_4_2	Closing TGD due to future problems is unlikely given its size	 Closing TGD due to future problems is unlikely given its size Investments in TGD and the costs of its construction were so large that it is unlikely to be closed in the future, even if it becomes clear that the environmental and social costs were higher than expected. A return on investment must be achieved in such a project, and this creates a the potential for a high level of rigidity against social and environmental concerns.  
con_4_3	Argument: The Three Gorges Dam has destroyed Chinese cultural artifacts	Argument: The Three Gorges Dam has destroyed Chinese cultural artifacts According to Chinese recent archaeological discoveries, the Three Gorges are viewed as the cradle of ancient Chinese culture.There are a total 1208 archaeological sites(441 above ground and 767 underground)covering nearly 2 million years of history in the inundated areas of 632 square kilometres along the YangtseRiver extending nearly 700 kilometres from Chongqing to Sandouping.
con_4_4	The Three Gorges Dam was dangerously constructed on a fault line	 The Three Gorges Dam was dangerously constructed on a fault line The Three Gorges Dam exists on a major fault line. A major earthquake in the area could cause the dam to collapse, leading to thousands of casualties, costing billions of dollars, and proving counter-productive to its objective. In addition, the massive reservoir building up behind the Three Gorges Dam increase pressure on the earth and may elevate the risk of an earthquake in the area.
con_4_5	The Three Gorges Dam is a cause of corruption.	The Three Gorges Dam is a cause of corruption. The people building the dam don't care if it works or not. You need a big project to get big kickbacks. The costs have skyrocketed - mostly due to bribes and corruption. 50 years from now it may silt up and overflow for that reason. 
