title	Primaries in US elections
question	Are US primary elections sound or should they be abandoned?
headline_1	Democracy: Are the primaries adequately democratic?
pro_1_1	Primaries are largely the internal affairs of political parties	 Primaries are largely the internal affairs of political parties Primaries are not intended to be a fully democratic process. Political parties have a right to free association protected by the First Amendment of the Constitution. Included in this, is the right to construct primaries how they want. There is not obligation that the primary elections be "fair". But, it is the party itself that has substantial authority to make the choice and to craft the rules of the primary that frame the choice.  Therefore, primary elections don't have to be perfectly fair. 
pro_1_2	Primary elections need not be fully democratic	 Primary elections need not be fully democratic The United States have developed an institutional tradition of undemocratic mechanisms designed to actually control political processes.These institutions such as the Supreme Court, the Electoral College , the President's veto power have been part of the American  Government and have helped preserve democracy since the foundation of the United States. 
pro_1_3	Primary elections are democratic and representative enough	 Primary elections are democratic and representative enough 
pro_1_4	A national primary would violate Party rights to association	 A national primary would violate Party rights to association The problem with a national primary is that it would violate many of the interests and powers that are constitutionally and politically necessary to preserve. First, it would violate the state governments' powers in establishing the election process and state parties interests in working together with the state to craft this process. Second, it would violate the interests of the Parties to preserve their right to free association and to ensure that their nominee reflects the interests of their party.  
pro_1_5	Primaries help reveal candidates to the public	 Primaries help reveal candidates to the public. While some complain that the primaries are too long, these elections should be this long. These are not ordinary elections, but elections to select the most powerful man or woman on earth. It is worth taking the more time than most elections held around the world to scrutinize the candidates for this particular office. And, there are many important character traits that can only be revealed in such a lengthy grueling process. Endurance, fortitude, grace under fire are all necessary abilities in the face of such a massive campaign challenge, and they are all necessary abilities in the presidency itself. Therefore, the length of the process seems a greater asset than weakness in primary election system.  
pro_1_6	Primaries help underfunded candidates gain attention	Primaries help underfunded candidates gain attention
pro_1_7	Iowa and New Hampshire help reveal the candidates to the nation	Iowa and New Hampshire help reveal the candidates to the nation It is beneficial that the candidates are all gathered in Iowa and New Hampshire for a number of weeks to compete against each other, give speeches, and to present themselves to the country. It is necessary that some states act as a stage for candidates to first show themselves to the nation. Why not Iowa and New Hampshire, both of which are small and so less likely to tip the scales to significantly in the beginning of the elections.   
pro_1_8	US primaries give needed power to state parties	 US primaries give needed power to state parties Both Democrat and Republican parties have national and state entities. State parties are to the national party organizations as states are to the federal government. State parties have somewhat of an independent interest that must be respected in the broader electoral process. Primaries achieve this, by empowering state parties to play a part in formulating the process by which delegates will be selected in the primaries. Given the importance of state power in the United States, it is necessary to keep state parties relevant in this way through the current primary system. 
pro_1_9	Parties don't have to treat all candidates equally in primaries	 Parties don't have to treat all candidates equally in primaries In political Parties that have a First Amendment right to free association, there is not really an obligation to be "fair" to every candidate and offer something equivalent to "equal opportunity". The party has a right to define what candidate is good for their political agenda and what candidate is bad for their political agenda. Basically, political parties can say, "if a candidate doesn't like it, too bad, run for office with a different party."
pro_1_10	Party bosses are legally permitted to exercise power in primaries	 "Party bosses" are legally permitted to exercise power in primaries Again, parties have the right to free association under the first amendment. And, while states may regulate the power of "party bosses" in state primaries, there is no constitutional obligation for them to do so. 
con_1_1	Primaries are too undemocratic relative to general elections	 Primaries are too undemocratic relative to general elections. The Primary elections are equally as important as the General election. For Democrats that hope to see a Democratic president, the Primaries are the elections that determine who that Democratic president might be. The same goes for Republicans. Yet, the general elections are a far more democratic process than the primaries, as the primaries give far more power to the Parties and delegates to determine the winner and nominee. Why is this? Primaries should be more democratic. 
con_1_2	Iowa and New hampshire are unrepresentative of the US	 Iowa and New hampshire are unrepresentative of the US Iowa and New Hampshire are both very small states that represent less than 1% of the electorate of the United States. They also do not reflect the diversity of interests that run across the United States. And, yet, these states are given unparalleled influence on the outcome the the presidential elections.  
con_1_3	Iowa and New Hampshire should not always be first in the primaries	 Iowa and New Hampshire should not always be first in the primaries While it may be important to have a system in which some state are first in the primary election, is it necessary that it always be New Hampshire and Iowa? No. Why not have a rotating system in which different states are given the right to go first each year.
con_1_4	Some delegates are not obligated to vote according to popular will	 Some delegates are not obligated to vote according to popular will This is undemocratic. Shouldn't the nominee for a party reflect the public will of the voting party members? 
con_1_5	Superdelegates are not bound to represent the electorate	Superdelegates are not bound to represent the electorate. In the past, "Super Delegates" have been a way for the Democratic party to secure a candidate at their convention. These elected officials make up a significant portion of the delegates and are not bound to vote for a particular candidate besides who they want to vote for them. This means that the electorate has no influence on who these "Super Delegates" vote for. In a close election, this can mean a small number of people with no concrete ties to the electorate, will decide the Democratic Candidate for the General Election.
con_1_6	The primary system pushes elections back in the calendar	 The primary system pushes elections back in the calendar This is a phenomenon known as by some as "front loading", in which different states desire to be earlier in the primary process to have a greater impact, thus causing a leap frogging effect backward in the calendar year. This makes the process much longer, more drawn out, more expensive, and sometimes even turns citizens off to the process.
con_1_7	Frontloading shifts attention only to the earliest primaries and in this disrupting a real participatory democracy	"Frontloading" shifts attention only to the earliest primaries and in this disrupting a real participatory democracy Studies have confirmed that the "New Hampshire effect" translates to a shift in focus  to the early primaries. In this way most states schedule their primary dates very early crowding the calendar. This allows for less time for voters to observe and evaluate their candidates and also skews the process towards the earliest dates. 
con_1_8	Complicated US primaries lead to misleading vote counts	 Complicated US primaries lead to misleading vote counts News media often reports the popular vote in primaries simply because it is easier to explain. But, this does not always reflect the reality of how delegates are appointed. The primaries, therefore, can create some level of public confusion. 
con_1_9	Primary elections distribute power unequally among voters	 Primary elections distribute power unequally among voters Instead of giving states delegates based on population, electoral college, or strength of the party in that state, the parties have a formula involving several other factors. This formula does not give states with close to the same population the same amount of impact on the primary season.
con_1_10	The complicated primary system creates confusion and turns voters off	The complicated primary system creates confusion and turns voters off Every state has a different primary system. Some have primary elections, some have caucuses, and some have both. These and other variations make it difficult for ordinary voters to follow the system, understand how they should engage as voters, and subsequently has the potential to turn them off to voting all together, which is bad for democracy.
con_1_11	Complicated primary elections create confusion abroad	Complicated primary elections create confusion abroad The US presidential elections are a globally important phenomena, but foreigners struggle to follow the process. This creates unfortunate impressions abroad about the system the elects the most powerful person in the world; a person that will affect foreigners.
headline_2	State interests: Are state interests upheld in the primary election process?
pro_2_1	Primaries create pride in unique local systems	 Primaries create pride in unique local systems While the primary system is complicated, this complication also produces pride within states and at precinct levels in the uniqueness of their particular process. This creates in voters a sense of identity with their state and Party and the process that they jointly develop. This is natural, since the United States is a government based on power-sharing between the federal and state governments. State governments benefit from the sense of pride and belonging that primaries foster. In short, the complicated primary system keeps states relevant and preserves their constitutional power.  
pro_2_2	US primaries give needed power to state parties	 US primaries give needed power to state parties Both Democrat and Republican parties have national and state entities. State parties are to the national party organizations as states are to the federal government. State parties have somewhat of an independent interest that must be respected in the broader electoral process. Primaries achieve this, by empowering state parties to play a part in formulating the process by which delegates will be selected in the primaries. Given the importance of state power in the United States, it is necessary to keep state parties relevant in this way through the current primary system. 
con_2_1	Primary election delegates are not distributed fairly between states	 Primary election delegates are not distributed fairly between states National party organizations do not assign delegates on the basis of population, but through a convoluted mix of political considerations. This means that two states with the same size populations may be given very different numbers of delegates. This means that the votes of citizens in different states count differently and that states generally are valued unequally.
headline_3	Party strength: Do primaries help strengthen the political parties?
pro_3_1	US primary elections help strengthen political parties.	US primary elections help strengthen political parties. The interests of state party organizations, such as the Tennessee Democratic Party, are important to consider in addition to the interests of the umbrella party organization (Democratic Party, Republican Party). And, these two organizational layers must work together cohesively to function most effectively. The primaries offer an opportunity for cohesion to be created, as it become necessary for state and national party organizations to coordinate their efforts and election processes and to reconcile their agendas. Such cohesion could not be flexed and exercised through something like a national primary. 
pro_3_2	Primaries are largely the internal affairs of political parties	 Primaries are largely the internal affairs of political parties Political parties are associations that have a right as well as a need to exercise their associational strength. The primaries are part of this. 
pro_3_3	Well organized conventions have always been coronation events.	Well organized conventions have always been "coronation" events. Conventions only degenerate into arguments when the party concerned has been in trouble, as at the 1968 Democratic convention in Chicago that saw street fighting between students and the police as the convention selected Vice-President Humphrey. Of course parties want well-orchestrated, triumphal conventions – they want to give the impression that their man is a winner and that they are united behind him. Furthermore and more importantly, the pre-primary conventions were corrupt, horse-trading events, with deals made in the fabled smoke-filled rooms filled with power brokers deciding who would become President. Delegates, whose votes would in theory decide the victor, were controlled by interest groups such as regional political patronage machines and business lobbies. The primaries make the convention a true party event, with all members of the party able to contribute.[2]
con_3_1	Primary elections give too much power to party bosses	 Primary elections give too much power to party "bosses" Because political parties control primary elections, party bosses are given substantial power and authority in making decisions that lead to the election of the next president. This is undemocratic.
con_3_2	An unrepresentative primary system damages the party strength	An unrepresentative primary system damages the party strength If people feel that they are disenfranchised by the primary system, they are much less likely to vote and to generally participate in politics in the party that they affiliate with. This obviously damages the strength of political parties, which depend on an energized electorate. 
con_3_3	The primary process reduces the level of debate at national conventions	The primary process reduces the level of debate at national conventions Traditionally, the conventions were sources of ideological and policymaking debate for organisations – both Republican and Democrat – that are far less pan-national than their European counterparts (especially when the party concerned is out of power). Now, the conventions are little more than coronation events. As a result, policy-making suffers and a party's position on an important issue may change from election to election, depending only upon the personal views of the candidate.[3]
headline_4	Alternatives: Are the alternatives to the primaries inadequate?
pro_4_1	Iowa and New Hampshire are ideal states to start the primaries	 Iowa and New Hampshire are ideal states to start the primaries Because Iowa and New Hampshire are small, they are the least likely to immediately decide the outcome of an election. In a rotating regional primary, however, a concern is that a prominent region may immediately decide the election.
pro_4_2	Iowa and New Hampshire voters are diligent examiners.	Iowa and New Hampshire voters are diligent examiners. These voters are particularly noteworthy for the way they pick apart and scrutinize candidates. In a sense, they are voters that the rest of the nation can trust with the responsibility of going first in the primary process.
pro_4_3	National primaries produce sound bite politics	National primaries produce sound bite politics
pro_4_4	A national primary would abandon the healthy caucus process	A national primary would abandon the healthy caucus process
pro_4_5	Changing the US primary system will not improve voter turnout	 Changing the US primary system will not improve voter turnout
con_4_1	Iowa and New Hampshire are not socially  or culturally representative of the U.S.	Iowa and New Hampshire are not socially  or culturally representative of the U.S. New Hampshire also does not remotely represent the vast diversity of this country's racial, cultural and ideological background, according to the Census Bureau. The national average for Caucasians in a state population is 73.9 percent, but New Hampshire is over 95 percent white. African Americans and Hispanics make up only a combined miniscule 3.4 percent of the state population, while the national average is 27.2 percent. It also has a much smaller percentage of foreign-born individuals and people below the poverty level, while our median household income is significantly higher than that of the rest of the country
con_4_2	Early emphasis on Iowa and New Hampshire disenfranchises minority voters	Early emphasis on Iowa and New Hampshire disenfranchises minority voters For minority voters, the current system is a disaster. Since the black and Latino population is disproportionately low in Iowa and New Hampshire, minority issues are ignored during the first crucial months of every presidential campaign. African-Americans get to have some significant input when the current primary process gets to South Carolina, but Latinos have to wait longer.   
con_4_3	Alternatives such as the Delaware Plan  would help all candidates and encourage public engagement	Alternatives such as the Delaware Plan  would help all candidates and encourage public engagement By allowing less populated states to start to vote and having the most populated to go last the alternative promotes better democratic participation as the winner of the party nomination cannot be yet established until all states have voted. The states that are last to vote still maintain their influence by the high number of delegates they can offer. This insures that the public maintains interest and participates  more to the democratic process
con_4_4	“Backloading”  of the primary schedule can  help reduce the special interest effect contained in all “big money ‘ campaigns.	“Backloading”  of the primary schedule can  help reduce the special interest effect contained in all “big money ‘ campaigns. The specific alternative model of allowing small states to go first provides a chance for particular candidates to start a campaign in smaller states with fewer funds. They can build their support so they can actually succeed in getting votes from the bigger states. By allowing this to happen, large billion dollars worth campaigns will not be the only possible way to be a presidential candidate. The big money behind campaigns generally enhance the special interest effect of certain groups or individuals that have founded campaigns and later may be able to get benefits trough policies or legislation.
con_4_5	Rotating regional primaries solve the problems of the current process	 Rotating regional primaries solve the problems of the current process. This would break the country into four regions, with the states in each region holding their primaries simultaneously on the first Tuesday of March, April, May, and June. Every year, the regions would rotate, with a new region getting the chance to go first. This would solve the problem of New Hampshire and Iowa receiving far too much voting power, would generally average-out the voting power of different states and voters, and yet would also preserve the basic state-primary systems and their important function in giving states due power. 
headline_5	Incumbent: Do US primaries give unfair advantage to the incumbent president?
pro_5_1	Primaries help parties define their agendas	 Primaries help parties define their agendas. US primaries are not simply about people voting for a person they want to become president. They are about people talking with other members of their Party to craft the agenda of that party. The complicated primary elections, mixed with caucuses in which people get out and publicly voice their reasons for supporting a particular candidate, helps foster this agenda setting within the parties. This strengthens the ideas of a party. 
con_5_1	Primary elections give unfair advantage to incumbent candidates.	Primary elections give unfair advantage to incumbent candidates. By making rival opposition candidates attack one another, using up their campaign funds and destroying their reputations, the primaries favour an incumbent president, who is sure of nomination and can wait until the election proper before unleashing his funds – which are normally higher than the challenger’s, even without the depletion of the challenger's funds through the primaries.[4]
headline_6	Economics: Are the costs too high?
pro_6_1	Primaries are an enormous and unproductive use of money	 Primaries are an enormous and unproductive use of money The US presidential presidential primaries are a particularly long process, getting longer ever year in part due to what is known as "frontloading". The length of the process makes it necessary for competitive campaigns to raise many millions of dollars throughout the process. It would be better if the process was shorter, and thus less costly.
pro_6_2	National primaries are too costly	National primaries are too costly.
