title	Assault weapons ban in the United States
question	Should citizens in the United States be banned from possessing assault weapons?
headline_1	2nd Amendment: Is a ban consistent with the 2nd amendment of the US constitution?
pro_1_1	The Second Amendment applies to militia's, not private ownership	 The Second Amendment applies to militia's, not private ownership. "Since the Second Amendment right 'to keep and bear arms' applies only to the right of the state to maintain a militia, and not to the individual's right to bear arms, there can be no serious claim to any express constitutional right of an individual to possess a firearm," (Stevens v. United States).
pro_1_2	A ban on assault weapons is not a slippery slope to an all gun ban	 A ban on assault weapons is not a slippery slope to an all gun ban. Most individuals seeking a ban on assault weapons just want assault weapons to be banned.
con_1_1	The US 2nd Amendment does not merely protect a right to arms in militias	 The US 2nd Amendment does not merely protect a right to arms in militias 
con_1_2	An assault weapons ban violates the presumption of innocence	 An assault weapons ban violates the presumption of innocence 
con_1_3	An assault weapon ban violates the second amendment	 An assault weapon ban violates the second amendment
con_1_4	An assault weapons ban leads to a slippery slope of gun seizures	 An assault weapons ban leads to a slippery slope of gun seizures
con_1_5	The Supreme Court has affirmed the individual right to bear arms.	The Supreme Court has affirmed the individual right to bear arms. The Supreme Court has affirmed that the 2nd Amendment confers an individual right to bear arms.  (Heller vs. District of Columbia)  Delivered in 2008.
headline_2	Crime: Does an assault weapons ban reduce crime and save lives?
pro_2_1	Assault weapons empower the deranged to kill many people	 Assault weapons empower the deranged to kill many people. - While the phrase "guns don't kill people, people kill people" is used widely, what it misses is the extent to which assault weapons enable deranged individuals to kill massively. 
pro_2_2	The 1994 US assault weapons ban significantly decreased use	 The 1994 US assault weapons ban significantly decreased use. The use of assault weapons was down 17% from 1994 levels in 2004, according to one report.
pro_2_3	There are fewer assault weapons at crime scenes since the ban	 There are fewer assault weapons at crime scenes since the ban. "Since enactment of the law, the number of assault weapons traced to crime scenes has dropped 45%, according to Crime Gun Solutions LLC, a consulting firm." [1]
pro_2_4	Since the ban, there have been fewer gun fatalities	 Since the ban, there have been fewer gun fatalities. "Deaths caused by guns dropped from 38,505 in 1994 to 29,573 in 2001, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. While crime experts say the drop resulted from several factors, such as fewer gang shootings involving crack cocaine, they cite the assault weapons ban and other gun controls passed in 1993 and 1994 as among the causes"[2]
pro_2_5	Assault weapons are used to kill a greater number of people	 Assault weapons are used to kill a greater number of people. Assault weapons can hold and fire more rounds. This is directly proportional to how many people can be killed.
pro_2_6	Law enforcement agents are put at a greater risk due to assault weapons	 Law enforcement agents are put at a greater risk due to assault weapons. Assault weapons are responsible for 1 in 5 deaths of law enforcement agents.
pro_2_7	Police support a ban on assault weapons	 Police support a ban on assault weapons Police, those that have the most experience dealing with crime, are strongly in favor of gun control laws. Why is this? First, many cops have been killed by assault weapons, and these brave law enforcement officers must consistently deal with the fear that criminals they encounter will be packing assault weapons. Second, they recognize that assault weapons are used by some criminals and madmen to inflict maximum casualties. Finally, they see first hand instances in which assault weapons can be used offensively and defensively, and it is notable that they conclude, ultimately, that assault weapons should not be available to the public. 
pro_2_8	Statistics gathered during the last federal weapons ban do not include copy-cat weapons	 Statistics gathered during the last federal weapons ban do not include "copy-cat" weapons. These types of assault weapons are not counted in the number of deaths due to assault weapons. Therefore, for at least the weapons that were banned, a drop in violence can be appropriately attributed.
pro_2_9	An assault weapons ban decreases supply and increases prices, beneficially	 An assault weapons ban decreases supply and increases prices, beneficially - While it may be impossible to get rid of all assault weapons, what is possible is to decrease the supply of assault weapons. This makes them more difficult to obtain and drives up their price on the market, which makes them less attractive to prospective buyers. This all generally decreases the presence of assault weapons on the street and in crime. 
con_2_1	The 1994 assault weapons ban did not decrease crime	 The 1994 assault weapons ban did not decrease crime The obvious intent of the 1994 assault weapons ban was to decrease criminal acts in which assault weapons were used. But, the assault weapons ban has not done this. 
con_2_2	The assault weapons ban is unnecessary; criminals prefer concealable hand guns	 The assault weapons ban is unnecessary; criminals prefer concealable hand guns While criminals wanted to carry powerful automatic weapons in the 90s, they now prefer hand guns, as they are concealable and yet still have the necessary deadly force for them to commit crimes.
con_2_3	Assault weapons banned in 1994 were not uniquely lethal	 Assault weapons banned in 1994 were not uniquely lethal Many guns that remained publicly available after the 1994 assault weapons ban were effectively as lethal as the weapons that were banned under the legislation. This is largely because simple adjustments to assault weapons allowed exemptions from the ban. And, it is clear that many of the weapons used in the most deadly massacres, such as the Columbine or Virginia Tech massacres in the United States, were not banned by the assault weapons law.
con_2_4	Decline in assault weapons due to decline in assault pistols	 Decline in assault weapons due to decline in assault pistols According to a 2004 report to the National Institute of Justice, "The decline in the use of AWs has been due primarily to a reduction in the use of assault pistols (APs), which are used in crime more commonly than assault rifles (ARs). There has not been a clear decline in the use of ARs, though assessments are complicated by the rarity of crimes with these weapons and by substitution of post-ban rifles that are very similar to the banned AR models."
con_2_5	The 1994 assault weapons ban was ineffectual	 The 1994 assault weapons ban was ineffectual The sale of assault weapons continued beyond the 1994 ban, but with very slight modifications, such as the sawing off of muzzles, to exploit the loopholes of the ban. Therefore, there was never exactly a ban on assault weapons, but simply a shift in how the manufacturers produced them. And, despite the fact that assault weapons were still being produced and sold, there were still drops in crime and the use of assault weapons on the streets. This suggests that assault weapons were not actually the issue.
con_2_6	Knives are more deadly than assault weapons	 Knives are more deadly than assault weapons Because knives are a more common weapon of choice for criminals, particularly because they are concealable, they have led to more deaths than assault weapons. Yet, Knives aren't banned. It's important to keep the relatively low societal risks in mind.
con_2_7	An assault weapons ban encourages organized crime	An assault weapons ban encourages organized crime 
con_2_8	An assault weapons ban will be subverted by blackmarkets	An assault weapons ban will be subverted by blackmarkets 
con_2_9	Expiration of the assault weapons ban could enable better gun control laws	 Expiration of the assault weapons ban could enable better gun control laws Some gun control advocates actually welcome the expiration of the 1994 assault weapons ban as a means to producing better gun control laws in the future.
con_2_10	Most automatic weapons were already illegal under the National Firearms Act of 1934	 Most automatic weapons were already illegal under the National Firearms Act of 1934 
con_2_11	An assault weapons ban would not prevent another Columbine massacre	 An assault weapons ban would not prevent another Columbine massacre 
headline_3	Self-defense: Are assault weapons unnecessary for self-defense?
pro_3_1	There are adequate alternatives to assault weapons for self-defense.	There are adequate alternatives to assault weapons for self-defense. A shotgun, pistol, or rifle are all adequate means of self-defense. These are powerful weapons with heavy destructive force. They can easily kill multiple assailants in rapid succession when used properly. If there is any concern about the ability of a gun owner to wield a shotgun or pistol properly such that they can kill multiple assailants, than they should seek enhanced training instead of an assault weapon.
pro_3_2	More home-owners are killed by gun-ownership than are saved	More home-owners are killed by gun-ownership than are saved While a right to self defense exists, it is important to note that more people are accidentally killed by their own guns than are saved by them. On this account, is the possession of guns, assault weapon or other, really "self-defense"? Furthermore, assuming that gun ownership involves risks, the ownership of more deadly assault weapons may increase the risk of accidental death or mutilation.
pro_3_3	Assault weapons are military caliber weapons not suited for home protection purposes	 Assault weapons are military caliber weapons not suited for home protection purposes. 
con_3_1	Assault weapons are superior for self defense	 Assault weapons are superior for self defense Revolver pistols typically hold 6 rounds. It is significant possibility that a person defending themselves from robbers or assailants would need more than 6 rounds, particularly if there are two or three of them. Yet, re-loading a revolver is time consuming and not a good situation to be in the face of attackers. 
con_3_2	Banning semi-automatic weapons would harm small businesses.	Banning semi-automatic weapons would harm small businesses. A ban on semi-automatic weapons would damage the revenue of small business. 
con_3_3	Semi-automatic assault weapons are often misrepresented	 Semi-automatic assault weapons are often misrepresented Semi-automatic assault weapons are weapons in which one pull of the trigger shoots one bullet. These weapons are commonly used at shooting ranges and in hunting. Yet, they are often misrepresented as "machine guns" with heavy destructive force. 
headline_4	Drug cartels: Are assault weapons used by drug cartels?
pro_4_1	Assault weapons are used by drug cartels, kill thousands	 Assault weapons are used by drug cartels, kill thousands. The Israeli Uzi pistol and variants on the Soviet AK-47 are attractive to criminals who need to protect their investments.
con_4_1	A ban would create blackmarkets in arm trade.	A ban would create blackmarkets in arm trade. These blackmarkets could be directly linked with other illicit trading, such as narcotics, and could become a source of added revenue for organized crime and drug trafficking. 
headline_5	Hunting: Are assault weapons legitimate for hunting purposes?
pro_5_1	Semi-automatic weapons do not serve a sporting purpose	 Semi-automatic weapons do not serve a sporting purpose. Semi-automatic weapons original purpose are for shooting and killing humans, not game animals. In addition, is there any legitimate reason to want to involve assault weapons in the sport of hunting. First, the mass killing of game could be considered a violation of animal rights. At a minimum, this kind of activity does not seem to be much of a challenging sport. Rather, it would appear to make the maximization of the killing of game the primary objective, over the art of making a skillful kill.
con_5_1	Assault weapons are consistent with hunting for foot.	Assault weapons are consistent with hunting for foot. The art or form of hunting was originated from obtaining a form of food, so it does not really matter how the kill takes place. Semi-automatic weapons makes it easier to operate a weapon so that you can kill game. The weapons, therefore, are a completely legitimate form of hunting. 
con_5_2	Semi-automatic weapons has not decimated animal populations.	Semi-automatic weapons has not decimated animal populations. People have been using semi-automatic weapons for years and have not caused not making a big dent i game account so we are just balancing the population with using these weapons. 
