title	Kosovo independence
question	Should Kosovo be independent?
headline_1	Kosovo viability: Would an independent Kosovo be a viable state?
pro_1_1	Kosovo is capable of governing itself independently	Kosovo is capable of governing itself independently - Agim Ceku, Prime Minister of Kosovo, "Succeeding in Kosovo", Washington Post, 12/12/06 - "In the past several years, Kosovo has undergone a remarkable transformation. Most of the responsibilities of governing have been transferred from the U.N. Mission to the Provisional Government. Kosovo has a sound microeconomic foundation, as well as a tax system with few exemptions and low marginal rates. Our labor laws are among the most flexible in Europe and the government has normalized private property laws. While the judiciary and security sector still need deeper, fundamental reforms, Kosovo has by and large developed functional and effective institutions."
pro_1_2	Kosovo independence will foster national pride and progress	 Kosovo independence will foster national pride and progress Many Kosovars are extremely excited to become independent. They feel that they will take much more pride in their country and hope for its future. This will make them much more likely to work hard for its progression and independent viability.
pro_1_3	Ethnic divisions make an independent Kosovo the most viable	 Ethnic divisions make an independent Kosovo the most viable The ethnic divisions between Serbia and Kosovo are very substantial, with Kosovo being 90% ethnic Albanian and Serbia being majority ethnic Serbian. Given the ethnic divisions and history between these two groups, the current arrangement is not viable, and will continue to render Kosovo disfunctional. An independent Kosovo would function more coherently and effectively.
pro_1_4	An independent Kosovo is the least bad option now	 An independent Kosovo is the least bad option now Pat Cox, former President of the European Parliament, argued on 2/14/05 that, "Kosovo has nowhere left to go other than independence. Returning to a state relationship with Serbia is anathema to the 90 per cent of the population that is ethnic Albanian, and forcing such a solution would reignite war.  Any protectorate option would be seen by Kosovo Albanians as merely the buying of time at their expense. And there are no viable candidate organisations to take on the role: the UN's political capital in Kosovo is exhausted after its five years of inadequate, stop-gap administration, and the EU is not geared or willing to take over Kosovo's governance."
pro_1_5	An independent Kosovo would actually become part of the EU	 An independent Kosovo would actually become part of the EU Kosovo does not intend to "go it alone" as an independent nation, but, rather, to join with the EU. Therefore, Kosovo is not seeking "independence", per se, but rather the opportunity to become a part of the EU, where it can certainly survive as a viable state.
con_1_1	Kosovo is too underdeveloped for independence	 Kosovo is too underdeveloped for independence Serbs do not enjoy freedom of movement, there is little decentralized power-sharing with local communities, political and legal institutions have yet to mature, political infighting is rampant, crime and corruption are high, patronage systems are deeply embedded in the clannish structure of Albanian society, poverty and economic woes persist, and all of this undermines Kosovo's efforts to attract foreign capital. These are not good conditions for a move to independence and viability.
con_1_2	An independent Kosovo would be financially costly to its neighbors	An independent Kosovo would be financially costly to its neighbors M. Bozinovichand, "Kosovo Independence: A Costly Supposition", Servianna.com 4/10/04 - "Kosovo might be of similar fate [to Albania - see below] simply because the proponents of Albanian nationalism want to grant it independence yet it is unclear whether they are also willing to pay an exorbitant tribute to the Kosovo Alabanian government whose taxable base of less then 2 million people earning average of $30 per month cannot yield not 1% of required costs to run that country. Case in point is the $2 billion cost of American presence on only one-fifth of the province. Multiplied by 5 sectors that Kosovo is split into, the cost approaches $10 billion annually and even that presence is insufficient to provide complete security to the area. Factoring in the taxable base and potential revenues that Kosovo government may acquire from various kinds of legitimate enterprise, the independent Kosovo entity may cost foreign sponsors at least $5 billion annually to sustain it in addition to value-depleting activities exported out of there such as drugs, prostitution and weapons that may never be eradicated."
con_1_3	An independent Kosovo would have to pay impossible debts to Serbia	 An independent Kosovo would have to pay impossible debts to Serbia The Kosovo region owes Serbia a significant amount of money for what the country has invested in Kosovo over the years. It is presumable that Kosovo would have to compensate Serbia for these investments if it were to gain independence, but the cost of this indebtedness could be more than Kosovo can bear.
con_1_4	Northern Kosovo serbs may secede from an independent Kosovo	 Northern Kosovo serbs may secede from an independent Kosovo North of the Ibar river, Kosovo's serbs are largely opposed to an independent Kosovo and have threatened that they would secede. This would undermine the viability of a Kosovo state and possibly lead to violence or even war.
headline_2	Violence? Would Kosovo independence reduce tension and violence in the region?
pro_2_1	Delaying Kosovo independence will escalate violence and instability	Delaying Kosovo independence will escalate violence and instability Any delay of independence in Kosovo would be seen as a sign of weakness in Serbia, and exploited to attempt to disunite the political factions in Kosovo that are set on a course to independence. This could lead to instability and violence.
pro_2_2	Serbia's public will not support a violent response to Kosovo independence	 Serbia's public will not support a violent response to Kosovo independence Political parties in Serbia have all explicitly ruled out, in recent elections, the idea of starting another war over keeping Kosovo within Serbia's boundaries. This, and the fact that an international military presence remains in Kosovo, makes the possibility of Serbian military resistance to Kosovo independence highly remote.
pro_2_3	The potential of violence should not deter a principled move to an independent Kosovo	The potential of violence should not deter a principled move to an independent Kosovo The potential for violence and conflict should not deter Kosovo's people from pursuing independence. Because independence is just in Kosovo's case, the use of violence and revolution toward those ends is also just.
pro_2_4	Kosovo Albanians seek a peaceful transition to independence	Kosovo Albanians seek a peaceful transition to independence - The historic pacifism of the Kosovars makes it unlikely that they will act in an aggressive, unprovoked manner. This, in addition to the presence of international security forces, makes the outbreak of violence less likely.
con_2_1	Kosovo independence could spark conflict with Serbia around Metrovica	 Kosovo independence could spark conflict with Serbia around Metrovica Metrovica is a northern Kosovo city existing close to the border with Serbia. 40% of Kosovo Serbs live  in and north of this city. A number of concerns surround this area in the event of a Kosovo declaration of independence. First,  it is possible that the ethnic Serb policemen there will drop their Kosovo uniforms and enter Serbia, which could be taken as a major red flag on the part of Kosovo nationalists and reason for taking defensive military measures. In addition, it is possible that Serbia will, out of concern for its ethnic population in the north of Kosovo around Metrovica, invade or take measures to protect these groups. These Serbian concerns have led to some proposals to partition the area north of Metrovica away from an independent Kosovo.[1] All of these possibilities are real concerns for the outbreak of violence in the event of a declaration of Kosovo independence.
con_2_2	Russia backs Serbian opposition to Kosovar independence	 Russia backs Serbian opposition to Kosovar independence There is some speculation that Russia would militarily support Serbia in suppressing Kosovar independence.
con_2_3	Northern Kosovo serbs may secede from an independent Kosovo	 Northern Kosovo serbs may secede from an independent Kosovo North of the Ibar river, Kosovo's serbs are largely opposed to an independent Kosovo and have threatened that they would secede. This would undermine the viability of a Kosovo state and possibly lead to violence or even war.
con_2_4	Many EU foreign ministers fear violence following Kosovo independence	 Many EU foreign ministers fear violence following Kosovo independence Kosovo nationalists have been eager to win the approval of EU foreign ministers on their bid for independence. Yet, many of these foreign ministers are hesitant to give their blessings out of concern for an outbreak of violence following independence.
con_2_5	An opaque international diplomatic climate makes conflict more likely in Kosovo	 An opaque international diplomatic climate makes conflict more likely in Kosovo Whenever world powers are unclear or silent about the their position in a conflict regarding sovereignty and independence, there is room for miscalculation. Serbia may calculate that the international community would stand on the sidelines if it acted to suppress Kosovar independence.
con_2_6	An independent Kosovo might discriminate against Kosovar Serbs.	An independent Kosovo might discriminate against Kosovar Serbs. Ethnic Albanians in Kosovo have, in the past, discriminated against ethnic Serbs. The concern is that, without control from a central Serbian government, Kosovo Albanians may feel more free to discriminate against the Serbs in Kosovo.
headline_3	Right to independence? Does Kosovo have a right to independence?
pro_3_1	Ethnic Albanians have an historic claim to Kosovo	 Ethnic Albanians have an historic claim to Kosovo Ethnic Albanians, composing 90% of the population of Kosovo, have a strong historic claim to an independent Kosovo. Kosovo-Albanian nationalism really began in the late 19th century, but their consistent claims to an independent Kosovo were repeatedly unfairly denied after WWI by the Great Powers who gave Kosovo to the more powerful Serbia and by Tito who denied them independence in an effort to placate Serbian desires.
pro_3_2	Serbia illegally annexed Kosovo	 Serbia illegally annexed Kosovo
pro_3_3	Kosovo's autonomy within Yugoslavia supports moves to independence	 Kosovo's autonomy within Yugoslavia supports moves to independence
pro_3_4	Kosovo cannot be likened to other modern secessionist movements	 Kosovo cannot be likened to other modern secessionist movements
pro_3_5	Kosovars strongly desire independence	Kosovars strongly desire independence Kosovars have a long history of struggling for independence, and have demonstrated a clear majority desire for independence.
pro_3_6	Serbian abuses invalidate their sovereignty over Kosovo	 Serbian abuses invalidate their sovereignty over Kosovo Serbia performed numerous atrocities against the Kosovars in the war there in 1998 and 1999. This, and the recent denials of these atrocities, leads to the conclusion that the Serbians have foregone their any sovereign right over Kosovo. Whenever a government acts tyrannically towards a group of its people, its sovereignty over that people is put into question, and this is no exception.
pro_3_7	Kosovo's clear ethnic Albanian majority validates independence| Kosovo's clear ethnic Albanian majority validates independence	Kosovo's clear ethnic Albanian majority validates independence| Kosovo's clear ethnic Albanian majority validates independence Kosovo's population is roughly 90% ethnic Albanian. This in itself makes it clear that Kosovo stands distinctly apart from Serbia.
pro_3_8	Kosovo independence will formalize its existing autonomy	 Kosovo independence will formalize its existing autonomy Kosovo already acts with a large degree of autonomy. Independence would mainly formalize this autonomy, and would not be a dramatic shift from the status quo.
con_3_1	There is no clear Kosovo identity warranting independence	 There is no clear Kosovo identity warranting independence Kosovas does not exactly have a coherent national identity. Yet, its Albanian population is coherent and nationalistic, the Serbian Kosovars in the north generally oppose independence, and do not identify with the Kosovo Albanian desire for independence. This means that it is not quite proper to claim that there is a clear national identity in Kosovo that warrants independence; there is plenty division and opposition to independence.
con_3_2	Kosovo is an historic part of Serbia that should not grow independent	 Kosovo is an historic part of Serbia that should not grow independent Yevgeny Primakov, member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, "Three Arguments Against Kosovo Independence", Serbian News Network, 2/19/07 - "Kosovo and Metohia are considered to be the Serbs' native and ancestral land, a land where their civilization, culture and identity evolved. The Serbian Constitution, recently adopted in a nationwide referendum, calls Kosovo an inalienable part of Serbia."
con_3_3	Kosovo independence and international recognition would apply a double standard	 Kosovo independence and international recognition would apply a double standard Many break-away regions around the world, very similar to Kosovo, ahve declared independence but have not received international recognition. What makes Kosovo any different?
con_3_4	Serbia's abuses in Kosovo are exaggerated	 Serbia's abuses in Kosovo are exaggerated
con_3_5	Kosovar Albanians have terrorized ethnic Serbs in Kosovo	 Kosovar Albanians have terrorized ethnic Serbs in Kosovo While it may be true that Serbians have abused Albanians in Kosovo, it may also be accurate that Kosovar Albanians have reciprocated abuse in kind. As such, Albanian Kosovars should have no special right to independence on the basis of Serbian abuses.
headline_4	International stability: Would Kosovo independence help regional/international stability?
pro_4_1	Kosovo independence will not inspire other separatist movements	 Kosovo independence will not inspire other separatist movements
pro_4_2	Support for Kosovo independence will reduce Muslim resentment	 Support for Kosovo independence will reduce Muslim resentment It should be noted that Kosovo's Albanian population is chiefly Muslim, as opposed to the Christian orthodoxy of Serbia. In the Muslim world, the oppression of the Albanian Muslims by the Christian Serbs is viewed with resentment, ostensibly fitting neatly with the story line of the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. The continued denial of Kosovo independence is viewed in the Muslim world as just another example of Western and/or Christian oppression, inflaming Muslim resentment and lending fuel to Muslim extremist causes in the region and around the world.
con_4_1	Kosovo independence would foster Albanian and international jihadism	 Kosovo independence would foster Albanian and international jihadism
con_4_2	Kosovo independence would encourage other separatist movements	 Kosovo independence would encourage other separatist movements Greece, Cyprus, Slovakia, Romania, and Spain have all resisted Kosovo independence out of concern that it would encourage separatist movements in their own territories. Most of them argue that they will not recognize an independent Kosovo unless it receives the blessing of the EU. The reason is that this would set the more difficult precedent for their separatist movements to have to work through the EU to achieve independence.
headline_5	Serbian opinion: Are Serbians tolerant of an independent Kosovo?
pro_5_1	New Serbia wants to move away from Kosovo problem	 "New" Serbia wants to move away from Kosovo problem Agim Ceku, Prime Minister of Kosovo, "Succeeding in Kosovo", Washington Post, 12/12/06 - "There are two Serbias today. The modern Serbia understands that Kosovo is moving on, and has come to terms with this reality. This Serbia is focused on Europe and on reviving Serbia's economic potential and, with it, the well being of Serb citizens."
pro_5_2	Serbian Foreign Minister Goran Svilanovic supports Kosovo independence	 Serbian Foreign Minister Goran Svilanovic supports Kosovo independence According to Charles Kupchan 11/05, "Only one high-ranking Serbian politician, former Foreign Minister Goran Svilanovic, has publicly endorsed letting Kosovo go."
con_5_1	Many Serbians are strongly opposed to Kosovo independence.	Many Serbians are strongly opposed to Kosovo independence. Anne Penketh. "Show of strength from Kosovo Serbs opposed to independence". The Independent. December 19th, 2007 - "Several thousand Serbs in the Kosovan town of Mitrovica have demonstrated against the likelihood that the province will declare independence from Serbia."
con_5_2	Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica.	Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica.[2]
headline_6	International Community: where does the international community stand?
con_6_1	Russia and China may block Kosovo independence in UN	 Russia and China may block Kosovo independence in UN Tihomir Loza, "Will Kosovo Independence Hurt Stability? 1/31/07 - "Russia and possibly even China may block any resolution taking Kosovo away from Serbia."
con_6_2	America opposes ethnically-based nation-states	 America opposes ethnically-based nation-states Daniel Byman, Policy Analyst, RAND Corporation, 2000 - "Under the UN resolution that ended the NATO war, Kosovo remains a part of Serbia.  This status accords with U.S. preferences, as Washington has long opposed partition in principle, particularly if it leads to ethnically based states.  Embracing the American ideal - that all peoples can live together regardless of racial, ethnic or sectarian divisions - Washington has consistently opposed the deliberate creation of ethnically homogenous states."
