title	Corn ethanol
question	Should corn ethanol be emphasized in the fight against global warming?
headline_1	Global warming: Is corn ethanol helpful in fighting global warming?
pro_1_1	Corn grown for ethanol acts first as a carbon sink	 Corn grown for ethanol acts first as a carbon sink Any plant, when grown, draws carbon dioxide from the air in the process of photosynthesis. Corn grown for ethanol is just the same. When it is burned, and emits carbon dioxide into the air, it is actually only emitting the carbon dioxide that it had previously drawn out of the atmosphere. In this sense, corn ethanol is largely neutral in its carbon dioxide emissions; it gives and takes equally. Gasoline and natural gas, on the other hand, are releasing new carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. The overall result is that corn ethanol production and use is far better for the environment and global warming.
pro_1_2	Corn ethanol burns cleaner than gasoline	 Corn ethanol burns cleaner than gasoline Ethanol, Fueling America's Future - "Ethanol is a clean-burning, renewable fuel...E85 is the cleanest burning fuel available on the market today...10% ethanol-enriched fuel reduces carbon monoxide better than any other gasoline — by as much as 30%...The use of 10% ethanol-enriched fuel reduces greenhouse gas emissions by 12 – 19% compared with conventional gasoline, according to Argonne National Laboratory...Ethanol reduces tailpipe fine particulate matter emissions by 50%. These emissions pose a threat to those with respiratory ailments."
pro_1_3	It requires less petroleum to produce corn ethanol than gasoline	 It requires less petroleum to produce corn ethanol than gasoline While some argue that it more petroleum is burned in the production of corn ethanol than is burned in the production and use of gasoline, multiple studies indicate otherwise. Some of them conclude that the entire process of producing and using corn ethanol emits roughly 1/3 less carbon dioxide and greenhouse gases than the production and use of gasoline.  
con_1_1	Ethanol energy is a net CO2 polluter	 Ethanol energy is a net CO2 polluter The primary concern here is the amount of fossil fuels that are burned in the process of producing corn ethanol, not just the emissions from the burning of corn ethanol alone. While corn ethanol could still be an improvement over gasoline in its net-C02 pollutions, the improvement may be so marginal that it could be considered statistically insignificant. 
con_1_2	Corn ethanol incentivizes deforestation, contributing to global warming	 Corn ethanol incentivizes deforestation, contributing to global warming Increasing demand for ethanol incentivizes the deforestation of rainforests and other areas to make way for corn crops. Because deforestation eliminates important carbon sinks that help combat global warming, corn ethanol, in so far as it leads to deforestation, worsens the global warming crisis.  
con_1_3	Corn ethanol cannot compete with oil:	Corn ethanol cannot compete with oil: In terms of net energy gain, there is little comparison between corn ethanol and oil. Tad Patzek, professor of civil and environmental engineering at Cal Berkley says it would take three to six gallons of ethanol to achieve the same net energy gain as a gallon of oil.[1]
headline_2	Net energy: Does corn ethanol yield a net energy gain?
pro_2_1	Corn ethanol energy produces a net energy gain	 Corn ethanol energy produces a net energy gain Corn ethanol provides more energy for consumption than it takes to make the ethanol itself. This is important because if it takes more energy to actually make a fuel than energy is received out from that fuel, then what is the point of making the fuel in the first place? Numerous studies and camps support this claim that ethanol energy is a net energy gain. It would appear that more studies support this side of the argument, than the counter claim that ethanol is a net energy loss. See the list of supporting studies and claims in the argument page.
pro_2_2	Relative to gasoline, corn ethanol has a good net energy gain	Relative to gasoline, corn ethanol has a good net energy gain. The net energy balance of gas is 0.76, according to the National Defense Resource Council.[2] This means the amount of energy in gasoline is %20 less than the energy put in to extract the resource. With corn ethanol, estimates range from it being a net energy gain of around 1.4 to a net energy loss of around .8. This means that, in general, it produces an even higher net energy gain than gasoline. On relative terms, corn ethanol stacks up well to its main competitor; gasoline.
con_2_1	Ethanol energy involves a net loss of energy	 Ethanol energy involves a net loss of energy A number of studies indicate that ethanol energy involves a net energy loss. This means that more energy is actually being used in the production of ethanol than is received out. See the list of studies in this argument page.
con_2_2	Transporting ethanol requires substantial ethanol	 Transporting ethanol requires substantial ethanol Alex Halperin. "Ethanol: Myths and Realities". Business Week. May 19, 2006 - "Ethanol can't travel in pipelines along with gasoline, because it picks up excess water and impurities. As a result, ethanol needs to be transported by trucks, trains, or barges, which is more expensive and complicated than sending it down a pipeline. As refiners switched to ethanol this spring, the change in transport needs has likely contributed to the rise in gas prices. Some experts argue that the U. S. doesn't have adequate infrastructure for wide ethanol use.Also, ethanol contains less energy than gas. That means drivers have to make more frequent trips to the pump." 
con_2_3	Uncertainty regarding net energy of corn ethanol is troubling.	Uncertainty regarding net energy of corn ethanol is troubling. The fact that there is even debate about whether corn ethanol results in a net energy gain is troubling. It should not be a close call. A good energy resource should have a substantial net energy gain. It seems that corn ethanol does not fit this criteria.
headline_3	Economics: Is corn ethanol beneficial economically?
pro_3_1	Expansion of corn ethanol industries is increasing its viability.	Expansion of corn ethanol industries is increasing its viability. Despite continuing doubts about whether corn ethanol provides a genuine energy savings, in the United States alone, at least 39 new ethanol plants are expected to be completed over the next 9 to 12 months. The new plants will add 1.4 billion gallons a year, a 30 percent increase over current production of 4.6 billion gallons, according to Dan Basse, president of AgResources, an economic forecasting firm in Chicago. By 2008, analysts predict ethanol output could reach 8 billion gallons a year.[3]
pro_3_2	Ethanol is economically beneficial	 Ethanol is economically beneficial Corn ethanol is economically beneficial in numerous ways. In general, any new fuel is a valuable contribution to energy security and the price-competition between various energy sources. This generally benefits consumers. In addition, the new corn ethanol industry creates jobs in numerous industries, including biotechnology and chemistry sectors.  
pro_3_3	Corn ethanol is competitive against high oil prices	 Corn ethanol is competitive against high oil prices Ethanol is economically competitive against rising oil prices. In the long-run, with gasoline reserves running out and energy demand growing, gasoline prices are set to rise exponentially. Corn ethanol prices, on the other hand have a long-term trajectory of dropping. This is because corn ethanol supply will only increase in the coming decades as the industry expands. 
con_3_1	The corn ethanol boom is driven by political propaganda	 The corn ethanol boom is driven by political propaganda The corn ethanol industry has grown largely due to powerful corn lobbies around the world. This lobby has been particularly strong in the United States. Yet, the case being made by these lobbyists is biased by a desire for profits, not to combat global warming. 
con_3_2	High demand can increase corn ethanol and gas prices	 High demand can increase corn ethanol and gas prices Corn ethanol is typically mixed with gasoline. This means that any increase in the demand for corn ethanol will necessarily involve an increase in the demand for gasoline. 
con_3_3	Ethanol energy does not get good fuel-economy with standard engines	 Ethanol energy does not get good fuel-economy with standard engines Some claim that corn ethanol can increase fuel-economy by 15-30%. This is not a significant improvement over ordinary gasoline vehicles, particularly in the face of global warming.
con_3_4	Corn ethanol cannot scale	 Corn ethanol cannot scale. It is not feasible to produce the amount of corn required to make the fuel a viable alternative to oil or a serious supplier of energy. 
con_3_5	Corn ethanol production costs too high despite investments	 Corn ethanol production costs too high despite investments [The Economist, "Coming up empty", March 27th 2010]: "Despite ample investment, production costs remain high and commercialisation elusive." 
headline_4	Oil replacement: Is corn ethanol a good way to reduce oil use and dependence?
pro_4_1	Ethanol is a means to reducing foreign oil dependencies	 Ethanol is a means to reducing foreign oil dependencies As a modest alternative to oil, among other alternatives, corn ethanol will help reduce foreign dependencies on oil. This has many important oil price and national security benefits.
pro_4_2	Corn ethanol is a good local replacement for oil	 Corn ethanol is a good local replacement for oil On farms and towns where corn is being produced, corn ethanol is a particularly attractive fuel option. Because it is locally grown, it avoids the process of transporting oil from long distances. This cuts transportation costs out of the equation and protects the environment from emissions and pollution that result from the long-distance transportation of oil.
pro_4_3	Corn ethanol is merely a part of the equation in replacing oil.	Corn ethanol is merely a part of the equation in replacing oil. Very few people argue that corn ethanol is THE replacement for oil and the solution to global warming. Rather, they argue that it is merely a part of the equation, or that it is an element of a diversified portfolio in both reducing foreign dependencies on oil and solving the problem of global warming. To argue that corn ethanol can't fully replace oil is to miss this point.
pro_4_4	Corn ethanol production is becoming more efficient relative to gasoline	 Corn ethanol production is becoming more efficient relative to gasoline While the technology and production methods advance in support of corn ethanol and as adequate corn supply is developed, the price of corn ethanol will decrease. Oil, conversely, is becoming increasingly scarce and difficult to produce, making it inevitable that oil prices will increase over the 21st century. 
con_4_1	Corn ethanol will not be a significant substitute for oil	 Corn ethanol will not be a significant substitute for oil - Corn ethanol production and use is currently only about 1% of US petroleum production and use. One source indicates that if 100% of corn resources were used in the country, it would still only constitute 16% of the total petroleum production and consumption. Corn ethanol, therefore, is not really capable of scaling to help replace gasoline.
con_4_2	Corn ethanol production demands too much oil to lower oil dependencies	 Corn ethanol production demands too much oil to lower oil dependencies Corn ethanol production demands a substantial amount of oil in the processing of corn into alcohol. Corn ethanol production, therefore, may actually increase demand for petroleum. Or, at least, the amount of petroleum used in the production of corn ethanol will cancel out the amount of foreign oil corn ethanol replaces. 
headline_5	Air-quality: Is corn ethanol better for air quality?
pro_5_1	Corn ethanol has a positive effect on air quality	 Corn ethanol has a positive effect on air quality The National Renewable Energy Laboratory tested a 1998 Ford Taurus FFV running on E85, reporting, "Emissions of total potency weighted toxics (including benzene, 1,3-butadiene, formaldehyde, and acetaldehyde) for the FFV Taurus tested on E85 were 55% lower than that of the FFV tested on gasoline."[4]
con_5_1	Corn ethanol damages air quality and causes respiratory illnesses	 Corn ethanol damages air quality and causes respiratory illnesses A health study by a Stanford professor indicates that emissions from the burning of corn ethanol production could have equal or worse air-quality and health effects as compared to the burning of gasoline. While corn ethanol emissions may be less problematic than gasoline to global warming, the impact on human health is certainly a significant issue to consider. 
headline_6	Land-use: Does ethanol energy use too much land?
pro_6_1	Corn feedstock is a beneficial byproduct of corn ethanol production	 Corn feedstock is a beneficial byproduct of corn ethanol production The production of corn ethanol produces feedstock as a byproduct. This can make the land-use complimentary. Over 50% of corn is used as feedstock for livestock, which means that corn ethanol is very complimentary with common uses of land for corn.
con_6_1	Corn ethanol contributes to soil erosion and runoff	 Corn ethanol contributes to soil erosion and runoff To produce corn ethanol, corn must be grown. If it is to be produced in mass, more land must be cleared to make room. Soil erosion is the natural result of clearing land for crop production. This has many environmentally negative impacts. Typically, it strips an ecosystem of its minerals, and the runoff that occurs sends silt as well as fertilizers and chemicals "down stream", sometimes into local water supplies. 
headline_7	Food prices: Does corn ethanol harm food supplies and prices?
pro_7_1	Making ethanol from corn does not deprive the needy of food	 Making ethanol from corn does not deprive the needy of food The primary issue with world famine is the difficulty of transporting existing food resources to the poor and needy. There is plenty of food in the world. Growing corn for ethanol does not deprive food supplies from the needy. In addition, the idea is to grow new corn crops to supply corn ethanol, rather than divert existing corn food crops to the production of corn ethanol. Indeed, as The Economist reckons, it is possible to make ethanol from cellulose, the abundant, inedible portion of most crops. "Using inedible inputs avoids fights about diverting food crops for fuel..." [The Economist, "Coming up empty", March 27th 2010]
con_7_1	Corn ethanol increases the price of corn and related foods	 Corn ethanol increases the price of corn and related foods Corn ethanol increases the demand for corn, while it is difficult for supply to keep pace. This increases the price of corn in general for food and for ethanol. It subsequently increases the price of live stock and meats, because corn is used as feedstock.  
headline_8	Water-use: Does corn ethanol deal with water limitations effectively?
pro_8_1	Corn requires less water than many other crops.	Corn requires less water than many other crops. Corn generally uses less water than soybeans and cotton in Pacific and Mountain regions.[5]
con_8_1	Producing corn for ethanol requires too much water	 Producing corn for ethanol requires too much water Water scarcity globally makes the heavy demand for water in the growth of corn crops very damaging. Increased population sizes, global warming effects, and warnings of 'water wars' on the horizon all make corn ethanols heavy use of water unattractive. 
con_8_2	Corn ethanol production damages water quality	 Corn ethanol production damages water quality All farming, particularly with row crops like corn, results in soil run-off. The concern is that pesticides and fertilizers used in the growth of corn will run-off into local ecosystems and water supplies. 
headline_9	Power: Is corn ethanol fuel powerful/efficient?
pro_9_1	Corn ethanol is energy efficient	 Corn ethanol is energy efficient Hosein Shapouri and James A. Duffield. "The Energy Balance of Corn Ethanol: An Update". Agricultural Economic Report No. 813, 2002 - "Corn ethanol is energy efficient... For every BTU dedicated to producing ethanol there is a 34% energy gain... Only about 17% of the energy used to produce ethanol comes from liquid fuels, such as gasoline and diesel fuel. For every 1 BTU of liquid fuel used to produce ethanol, there is a 6.34 BTU gain."
pro_9_2	Many race cars run on corn ethanol:	Many race cars run on corn ethanol: Ethanol fuel has a high octane level, which makes it a high-performance fuel that is desirable to many race car drivers. 
con_9_1	Corn ethanol is less energy efficient than regular gasoline:	Corn ethanol is less energy efficient than regular gasoline: A gallon of E-85 (fuel that contains 85% ethanol, 15% gasoline) has an energy content of 80,000 Btu — compared with about 118,000 Btu for a gallon of gas.[6] 
con_9_2	Sugar ethanol yields more energy and power than corn ethanol	Sugar ethanol yields more energy and power than corn ethanol A study, published in the July 2005 issue of BioScience, the journal of the American Institute of Biological Sciences (AIBS)assessed assessed the energy required to produce the crops and to manufacture and distribute the resulting fuels. In the United States, ethanol yielded only about 10 percent more energy than was required to produce it; in Brazil, where a different process is used, ethanol yielded 3.7 times more energy than was used to produce it.[7] 
headline_10	Engine compatibility: Is corn ethanol compatible with most engine types?
pro_10_1	Modern engines have been made ethanol-compatible	 Modern engines have been made ethanol-compatible Over the past 20 years, engine manufacturers have made their engines compatible with corn ethanol fuels. There is no requirement in adopting corn ethanol to modify engines; they are already 100% compatible.
pro_10_2	Corn ethanol acts as an antifreeze in the wintertime	 Corn ethanol acts as an antifreeze in the wintertime As such, corn ethanol eliminates the need to use artificial anti-freeze.
pro_10_3	Ethanol-blended fuels are approved under many auto warranties	 Ethanol-blended fuels are approved under many auto warranties This is largely because ethanol has been around for so long, and car manufacturers have been making their engines compatible for the past 20 years.
con_10_1	Ethanol fuel is bad for engines	 Ethanol fuel is bad for engines Examples of extreme corrosion of ferrous components, and internal separation of portions of rubber fuel tanks have been observed in some vehicles using ethanol fuels.
con_10_2	Most engines are compatible only with ethanol mixed with gasoline.	Most engines are compatible only with ethanol mixed with gasoline. Fuels with more than 10% ethanol are not compatible with non E85-ready fuel system components.
headline_11	Non-corn ethanol: Is corn ethanol superior to alternative types of ethanol?
pro_11_1	Corn ethanol is an immediate alternative fuel solution.	Corn ethanol is an immediate alternative fuel solution. This is one of the main arguments the US president Bush put forward in his advocacy of corn ethanol, saying in 2006, "Ethanol has the largest potential for immediate growth...Without much cost, your automobile can be converted to use 85 percent ethanol," Other alternative energy sources, including alternative ethanol types, do not typically have this quality. Corn ethanol energy has been in the works for decades in some places, and automobile engines have already been made compatible with it.
con_11_1	Corn ethanol is inferior to sugar ethanol	 Corn ethanol is inferior to sugar ethanol Sugar ethanol achieves much greater energy output than corn ethanol. 
con_11_2	Corn ethanol is inferior to cellulosic ethanol	 Corn ethanol is inferior to cellulosic ethanol Cellulosic ethanol has a net energy return of 4.40 to 6.61, compared to corn ethanol's range of between roughly 1 and 1.6 (according to different studies). This means that the energy return of ceullulosic ethanol is roughly three to four times that of corn ethanol, a huge difference.
headline_12	Public opinion: Where does public opinion stand on corn ethanol?
pro_12_1	Rural people have high hopes for corn ethanol	 Rural people have high hopes for corn ethanol There is a very high political appeal for corn ethanol development in rural, farmland areas with people that are involved in the corn industry or simply somehow exposed to it. This excitement should be harnessed.
con_12_1	Many environmentalists oppose corn ethanol	 Many environmentalists oppose corn ethanol On the grounds that there are more efficient, more "green" energy alternatives than corn ethanol, many environmentalists oppose the further development of corn ethanol. 
