title	Fish farming ban
question	Should fish farming be banned or severely restricted? Or should it be encouraged?
headline_1	Exploitation: Is it OK to exploit fish and subject them to physical pain?
pro_1_1	Humans do not have the right to subject animals to excessive suffering	 Humans do not have the right to subject animals to excessive suffering: Recent research in the UK, the USA and Canada has shown that fish are able to feel pain. In many countries, including the USA, there are no regulations to minimise pain to fish. Large numbers of fish are packed into small cages, in which lice and infections spread easily between fish. Cases of lice eating down to the bones of farmed fish are common. Fish are not stunned before they are killed, and are sometimes killed by suffocation or being frozen. At very least, fish should receive the protection against cruelty that farm animals (e.g. pigs, cows) receive. It would be better if fish farming was stopped completely.
pro_1_2	Dominion makes humans stewards; no right to harm/exploit animals	 "Dominion" makes humans stewards; no right to harm/exploit animals God did not give humans unfettered dominion over animals. Rather, human dominion over animals is much like God's dominion over humans; it is a caring, nurturing, parent-like relationship. It is not a tyrannical, do-what-we-want kind of a relationship. Therefore, fish-farming must be sensitively in-tune with this human care-taker dominion over animals.
pro_1_3	Fish feel pain and should not be made to suffer	 Fish feel pain and should not be made to suffer 
con_1_1	Humans have a right to exploit fish however they want	 Humans have a right to exploit fish however they want: It is more important that people are well fed than that animals are comfortable. This principle is accepted with land animals: chickens are often raised in cramped conditions. Moreover, nothing is done to stop pain to wild fish when they are caught. People should be encouraged to eat fish. Fish are a nutritious source of protein and are high in essential omega-3 fatty acids. The most efficient way to produce large quantities of fish is to farm them. This avoids the unpredictability, danger and cost involved in trying to catch wild fish in rivers and oceans. Fish farming makes cheap fish available for people to eat: it should therefore be encouraged, not banned.
con_1_2	Fish do not feel pain	 Fish do not feel pain  
headline_2	Effect on wild fish: Does fish farming harm wild fish?
pro_2_1	Fish farming is harmful to wild fish	Fish farming is harmful to wild fish: Diseases and parasites spread from fish farmed in cages in the sea to wild fish. According to Greenpeace, a typical salmon farm of 200,000 fish produces roughly the same amount of faecal matter as a town of 62,000 people. Faecal matter reduces the oxygen level in water. This leads to toxic algal blooms, which kill marine life. In the northern Pacific, over 1 million farmed Atlantic salmon have escaped from fish farms. These have competed with wild Pacific salmon for food and the number of Pacific salmon has fallen. There has also been interbreeding between escaped and wild fish, weakening the wild stock. To avoid these problems, fish farming should either be banned or be subject to much stricter environmental controls.
pro_2_2	Fish farming does not stop the catching of wild fish	Fish farming does not stop the catching of wild fish: Most farmed fish are carnivorous, so wild fish are caught to feed them. Greenpeace estimates that, for every pound of farmed salmon produced, five pounds of wild fish are caught to feed the salmon.
con_2_1	Fish farming on land would address many of the problems raised by the proposition.	Fish farming on land would address many of the problems raised by the proposition. Many of the problems raised by the proposition could be addressed by farming fish in tanks on land, rather than in cages at sea. 
con_2_2	Fish farms do more to protect wild fish than to harm them.	Fish farms do more to protect wild fish than to harm them. Overfishing means that natural stocks are currently severely depleted. For example, cod may die out completely in the North Sea unless there are drastic cuts in the number caught. Fish farming greatly reduces the need to catch wild fish. Unless we stop eating fish, fish farming is the only way to preserve wild fish. Furthermore, trawling in the oceans often results in bycatch, where unwanted animals are needlessly caught in nets and killed (e.g. dolphins, and fish which are too small or from protected or uncommercial species). Long line fishing for species like tuna leads to the death of millions of seabirds who are attracted to the floating bait on hooks trailed behind ships. None of this happens with fish farms.
con_2_3	Fish farmers are developing ways to reduce the number of wild fish they need to catch to feed farmed fish.	Fish farmers are developing ways to reduce the number of wild fish they need to catch to feed farmed fish. They are researching fish feeds based on poultry and vegetable oils instead.
headline_3	Human health: Are farmed fish unhealthy for humans?
pro_3_1	Farmed fish is not healthy	Farmed fish is not healthy: Fish are fed chemicals to make them grow faster. The long-term effect of these chemicals upon humans is unknown. To deal with disease, farmed fish are fed even more chemicals and antibiotics. Antibiotic-resistant bacteria are present in many fish farms. These bacteria are consumed by humans when the fish are eaten. Eating the fish could therefore risk human health.
con_3_1	There is no good evidence that farm fish are bad for human health	There is no good evidence that farm fish are bad for human health: The proposition is scare-mongering. There has been no major outbreak of disease in humans as a result of eating farmed fish. The health benefits of eating fish greatly outweigh these supposed risks.
headline_4	Appearances: Are fish farms unattractive visually and bad for tourism?
pro_4_1	Fish farms are unsightly and bad for tourism	 Fish farms are unsightly and bad for tourism: The tourism industry in western Scotland is unhappy that large cages on areas of scenic shoreline may deter visitors.
con_4_1	The appearance of fish farms is a minor concern	The appearance of fish farms is a minor concern: It is far more important that large quantities of sustainable fish are available. The employment offered by fish farms in rural areas more than makes up for any decline in tourism.
headline_5	Economics: Is fish farming economically unproductive?
pro_5_1	Fish farming is not actually benefiting the poor	 Fish farming is not actually benefiting the poor Gertjan de Graaf and Abdul Latif. "Development of Freshwater Fish farming and Poverty Alleviation. A Case Study from Bangladesh." Network of Aquaculture Centres in Asia-Pacific. June 2002 - "Half of the 130 million people in Bangladesh are poor and 30 million are living in extreme poverty. Poverty reduction and improvement of the livelihoods of the poorest of the poor has always been one of the major goals of development programmes in Bangladesh and is a major objective in all the aquaculture development programmes. Whether the benefits of these programmes have been made available to the poor can be questioned, as their basic strategy: 'growth of the overall fish production through fish farming' was in most cases not consistent with the socio-economic reality of the rural poor in Bangladesh. We want to illustrate this point with two case studies: the Compartmentalisation Pilot Project and the Char Development and Settlement Project."
pro_5_2	Fish farming squanders resources	 Fish farming squanders resources
con_5_1	Fish farming is economically beneficial	 Fish farming is economically beneficial "The Economy of Fish Farming". Salmonids: In trouble. Retrieved 1.23.08 - "One of fish farming's most positive aspects is the resulting economic benefits to a country's economy." Case studies in the the West Coast of Canada, Uzbekistan, China, Norway.
con_5_2	Fish farming can help alleviate poverty	 Fish farming can help alleviate poverty
con_5_3	Fish farming provides alternative employment to ecologically damaging industries	 Fish farming provides alternative employment to ecologically damaging industries
