title	Bush economic stimulus plan
question	Is George W. Bush's economic stimulus plan justified and beneficial for the U.S economy?
headline_1	Affordability: Is the plan affordable?
pro_1_1	The Bush 2008 stimulus package is affordable	 The Bush 2008 stimulus package is affordable - The $140b included in the stimulus plan is about 1% of GDP. That is a reasonable price to pay to attempt to stimulate the economy. It is not too much and not too little, but just enough.
con_1_1	Bush's 2008 economic stimulus plan will only add to US deficits	 Bush's 2008 economic stimulus plan will only add to US deficits Because the Bush administration is already running a deficit, the funding for his 2008 economic stimulus plan will likely have to come from borrowing, adding to the deficit.
con_1_2	A 2008 US stimulus package threatens to worsen inflation	A 2008 US stimulus package threatens to worsen inflation.
headline_2	Fighting crises: Are recessions necessary?
pro_2_1	Recessions are necessary and should not be avoided by stimulus	Recessions are necessary and should not be avoided by stimulus.
con_2_1	Recessions are not a necessary evil	Recessions are not a necessary evil.
headline_3	Tax rebate: Is the proposed tax rebate a good idea?
pro_3_1	Tax rebates to the lower-middle classes quickly stimulate consumption	 Tax rebates to the lower-middle classes quickly stimulate consumption - Rebates put money into the hands of the lower and middle classes, who are more likely to spend their money on services or consumer goods. This is precisely the kind of economic kick that is needed in the economy. In addition, it is necessary for this money to be infused into the economy fast. Tax rebates to the lower and middle classes achieve this, since these groups are more likely to spend the money fast. Therefore, a tax rebate to the lower and middle classes is well targeted.
pro_3_2	Bush's 2001 tax rebate succeeded in stimulating the economy	 Bush's 2001 tax rebate succeeded in stimulating the economy Numerous sources indicate that, in 2001, the rebates Bush provided of $300 to individuals and $600 to families had a significant impact on the economy. Various sources indicate that between 1/3 and 2/3 of the total rebate was spent in the first six months of the stimulus. Numerous sources indicate that the recession that year was relatively mild due to these steps, and could have been much worse otherwise. While the recession began in March it was over by November, even despite the September 11th attacks of that year.
pro_3_3	Tax rebates can be good for businesses in the service industry	 Tax rebates can be good for businesses in the service industry Stimulus in forms such as tax rebates could bring relief for businesses such as restaurants facing recent minimum-wage increases, rising commodity prices and changes in customer spending.
con_3_1	A tax rebate is not a sustained, long-term stimulus	 A tax rebate is not a sustained, long-term stimulus Tax rebates do not give families ongoing wage strength. Therefore, the economic effects on the economy can only be short-lived. 
con_3_2	Tax rebates do not always lead to increased spending/stimulation	 Tax rebates do not always lead to increased spending/stimulation The tax rebate plan is based on a failed premise: that taxpayers will immediately spend the rebate money they receive on consumer goods. But, with the current housing problems and huge debt, the money will probably not be spent on consumer goods, and rather to pay off loans. Furthermore, statistics show that Americans are gradually saving and conserving their money more often, which would be counter-productive to the plan. 
con_3_3	President Bush's 2001 tax rebate failed	 President Bush's 2001 tax rebate failed If a case study is sought, this is the most recent example of the failure of the 2001 Bush tax rebates to help stimulate the economy. Numerous studies conclude that the 2001 tax rebate was a failure.
con_3_4	A tax rebate is merely wealth re-distribution	 A tax rebate is merely wealth re-distribution Technically, no American is gaining any money under this plan because taxes in future years will have to increase to cover for the $145 billion loss in the federal budget. "Injecting" money into the economy now means withdrawing money from the economy later. Therefore, the plan is a form of wealth distribution that passes much of the burden onto future generations that are not to blame for current economic failures. 
con_3_5	Tax rebates don't encourage wealth production	 Tax rebates don't encourage wealth production Tax rebates are a cash give-away. There is nothing in them that increases incentives for workers to be more productive; whether they work hard or not, they will still be receiving the same tax rebate. Tax-cuts, on the other hand, incentivize increased productivity by creating a dynamic in which, if workers put in more hours and earn more money, they will be able to keep more of that money, instead of paying it away in taxes.   
con_3_6	Tax rebates encourage irresponsible consumer spending habits	 Tax rebates encourage irresponsible consumer spending habits This is particularly true in Bush's 2008 stimulus package, which aims to give a tax rebate to the lower and middle classes specifically because these classes are more likely to capriciously spend the money on consumer goods. Yet, given the debt-laden financial circumstances of the lower and middle classes, they should be using this money to pay down debts or simply should be saving the money. Therefore, the stimulus from a tax rebate depends directly on lower and middle-class consumers spending irresponsibly. Exploiting irresponsible behavior should not be the aim of economic stimulus packages.
con_3_7	Measures that encourage saving help stimulate the economy	 Measures that encourage saving help stimulate the economy It is often claimed that tax rebates for the middle and lower classes are good for the economy because they go toward spending rather to savings. But this assumes a false view of savings. If someone deposits money in their savings account at a bank, the bank is infused with more cash to lend out, which stimulates the economy. And, savers frequently save by investing, which stimulates capital flows, economic growth, and job creation. 
con_3_8	Tax Rate Cuts, Not Tax Rebates, Stimulate the Economy	 Tax Rate Cuts, Not Tax Rebates, Stimulate the Economy  Although tax rebates, increased unemployment benefits and other short-term payments may feel good and appear superficially attractive, they do very little to actually boost the economy and improve Americans' well-being. Rather, cutting tax rates, not mailing tax rebates, is what stimulates prosperity.  This is a critical distinction. The primary reason why tax rebates don't work is that they merely redistribute existing wealth, as opposed to creating new economic growth or encouraging innovation and entrepreneurship.  They do nothing to encourage risk-taking, investment or enlargement of the wealth pie, but instead re-slice the existing pie in a zero-sum manner.  
headline_4	Extended unemployment benefits: Would this be helpful?
pro_4_1	Extended unemployment benefits help bolster confidence/spending	 Extended unemployment benefits help bolster confidence/spending Unemployment benefits are a critical backdrop for employed individuals. If their unemployment benefits are low, they may feel that it is important that they hedge against any possible risks of future unemployment by spending less and saving more. This is not stimulating for the economy. If unemployment benefits are increased, employed individuals will feel more confident in their decisions to spend money now, even if it does so happen that they are laid-off in the future; the extended unemployment benefits will still keep them secure. Therefore, UI provides a boost of confidence to workers in their choice to spend money and help stimulate the economy.
con_4_1	Unemployment insurance does not stimulate the economy	 Unemployment insurance does not stimulate the economy - Few studies indicate that extending unemployment benefits helps stimulate the economy. Why this is the case is fairly straightforward. While it may be true that extended unemployment benefits makes some existing workers more confident that they can spend freely and still have a good safety net, those that are in the safety net of unemployment insurance feel too comfortable, and may not quickly search for new jobs. At the same time, employers use UI to hold together laid-off workers without paying them in times of low demand, waiting until things get better to finally re-hire workers. If UI is extended, employers will wait longer to re-hire laid-off workers they have on-hold with UI. Finally, UI has a fairly indirect link with consumption, attempting to stimulate confidence instead of providing a direct, sustainable infusion of cash to spend.
headline_5	Food stamps: Would a temporary increase in food stamps be justified?
pro_5_1	Increasing food stamp benefits can help stimulate spending	 Increasing food stamp benefits can help stimulate spending
pro_5_2	Millions of low-income Americans face undernutrition.	Millions of low-income Americans face undernutrition. Millions of low-income Americans face undernutrition technically termed food insecurity. Food insecurity means inconsistent access to enough nutritious food at all times during the year. Food insecurity can lead to health problems, particularly for infants and toddlers.Even mild to moderate undernutrition in young children is linked to problems that last throughout the lifespan. The federal Food Stamp Program protects low-income Americans of all ages from food insecurity and the more severe condition of hunger by helping them to purchase an adequate diet. Over 25 million Americans rely on Food Stamp benefits to supplement their food budget. About 20 million of those recipients live in households with children. The Food Stamp Program has been shown to be effective and efficient
con_5_1	Increasing food stamp benefits will not stimulate the economy	 Increasing food stamp benefits will not stimulate the economy
headline_6	Tax reduction options:
pro_6_1	Tax rate reductions increase weekly spending for a sustained stimulation	 Tax rate reductions increase weekly spending for a sustained stimulation
headline_7	Economics: Does the plan address the underlying economic problems?
con_7_1	Bush's 2008 stimulus plan does not address underlying economic problems	Bush's 2008 stimulus plan does not address underlying economic problems.
headline_8	Was the plan implemented at the right time? Does it matter?
pro_8_1	Economic stimulus packages can be well timed to maximize benefits	Economic stimulus packages can be well timed to maximize benefits.
pro_8_2	The effect of the 2008 stimulus package will be immediate	The effect of the 2008 stimulus package will be immediate.
con_8_1	Bush's 2008 economic stimulus is too late	Bush's 2008 economic stimulus is too late.
con_8_2	A poorly timed economic stimulus can do harm	A poorly timed economic stimulus can do harm.
