title	700 mile US Mexico border fence
question	Is a 700 mile fence on the US-Mexico border justified?
headline_1	Principles: Is it moral and democratic to build such a fence?
pro_1_1	A fence is justified as a sovereign regulation of cross-border flows	 A fence is justified as a sovereign regulation of cross-border flows
pro_1_2	The 700 wall cannot be compared to the Berlin wall	 The 700 wall cannot be compared to the Berlin wall The wall is not trapping individuals inside an area as the Berlin Wall did, but ensuring the regulation of cross-border flows.
pro_1_3	Building a border fence is not racism	 Building a border fence is not racism Protecting national sovereignty and controlling borders is not racism. Neither is a desire to protect national identity and cultural uniqueness.
pro_1_4	Illegal immigration is unfair to legal immigrants	 Illegal immigration is unfair to legal immigrants. It is difficult for foreigners waiting in line to immigrate to the United States to observe illegal immigrants crossing freely. Closing the borders is an important means to respecting legal immigrants.
pro_1_5	Building a wall is not comparable to berlin's wall.	Building a wall is not comparable to berlin's wall. The Berlin wall was intended to keep people in, the US-Mexico wall would keep people out.
con_1_1	A 700 mile fence is like the Berlin Wall	 A 700 mile fence is like the Berlin Wall A fence is a draconian measure. At least symbolically, it is comparable to the Berlin Wall.
con_1_2	A border fence will divide border communities	 A border fence will divide border communities NPR 10/26/06 - Douglas, Arizona Mayor Ray Borane "says a fence will divide a community that has strong family ties across the border."
con_1_3	A border wall will cut-off farmers and water supplies	 A border wall will cut-off farmers and water supplies Rancher and Brooks County (TX) GOP Chair Mike Vickers to the Los Angeles Times 10/1/06 - "The Rio Grande is the lifeblood of South Texas. A wall is just going to stand between farmers and ranchers and others who need legitimate access to water."
con_1_4	A wall would force crossers to take more deadly routes	 A wall would force crossers to take more deadly routes The fence is intentionally placed in the least dangerous border crossings, while leaving open treacherous routes. Given the strong desire to cross, many will attempt to make these crossing fatally. Hundreds die each year already. Hundreds more could be expected.
headline_2	Border security: Will a 700-mile fence help stop illegal immigration?
pro_2_1	The 700 mile fence will help channel illegal immigrants to areas patrolled by border agents	 The 700 mile fence will help channel illegal immigrants to areas patrolled by border agents - While the barrier might not cover the entire span of the border, it will cover one-third, channeling illegal immigrants to the remaining two-thirds of the border. Border patrolmen, will be able to better concentrate their efforts on the remaining two-thirds of the border with better results.
pro_2_2	Past fences succeeded in deterring crossings over the particular sections of the border they covered.	Past fences succeeded in deterring crossings over the particular sections of the border they covered. Opponents of building the 700-mile wall often cite the fact that previous fences and policing operations in the 1990s that aimed to secure heavily crossed urban stretches of the border in El Paso, Texas, and San Diego, California did not substantially reduce the in-flow of illegal immigrants overall. Instead, these determined illegals pushed out into remote desert areas to cross. While this is true, it does not necessarily provide a good historical example against the new wall. The fact that these walls and security efforts caused illegal immigrants to cross elsewhere at much greater risk to themselves (around 400 die annually crossing) seems to be a sign that these measures had a substantial deterrent impact. By extension, it may be reasonable to believe that the 700-mile wall and its accompanying border security measures will have a similar deterrent effect along the portions of the border it will cover.
pro_2_3	San Diego is symbol of efficacy of fence	 San Diego is symbol of efficacy of fence Washington Post - "...In the mid-1990s, the city was awash in illegal immigrants. Hundreds would gather by a soccer field near Otay Mesa, east of San Diego, and rush into the United States on what the Border Patrol termed "banzai runs." During those years, Border Patrol agents routinely apprehended 200,000 illegal entrants a year in the sector. Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-Calif.) got funding to build a fence and thousands more Border Patrol officers were dispatched to the area. The number of crossers plummeted." (see counter in costs subquestion below ->)
pro_2_4	Many past fences have failed to stop illegal immigration only because they were meant to stop drug-trafficking	 Many past fences have failed to stop illegal immigration only because they were meant to stop drug-trafficking The 700-mile fence would be designed with greater focus on stopping illegal immigrants and would likely be much more effective at doing so.
pro_2_5	Coupling a physical fence with new virtual fence technology will be effective	 Coupling a physical fence with new "virtual fence" technology will be effective: DHS spokesman Jarrod Agen said to Fox 1/3/07, "It's beyond physical borders like fencing. It looks at how to deploy tech with fencing, which would mean camera systems, satellite, radar, sensors — all of that, lighting systems — how you integrate that with fencing and also integrate that with the Border Patrol on the ground so that they can deploy quickly and responsively to incursions along the border."
pro_2_6	A physical fence accompanied with border patrollers will be effective	 A physical fence accompanied with border patrollers will be effective There is no substitute for man power. And the plan accompanying the 700-mile fence has been to send national-guardsmen to provide support in patrolling the borders. This has proven beneficial and compliments greatly the construction of a 700-mile wall.
pro_2_7	Israeli border fence demonstrates efficacy of a wall	 Israeli border fence demonstrates efficacy of a wallProfessor Jan C. Ting, Former Assistant Commissioner of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Services, is a Senior Fellow of the Foreign Policy Research Institute - "Are we not capable of building a fence like the one the Israelis have found effective in preventing terrorists from entering Israel?[...]Similar fences in Israel have reduced terrorist attacks by up to 95%."
pro_2_8	A 700-mile fence is only the first step in securing the whole southern border	 A 700-mile fence is only the first step in securing the whole southern border Many opponents of a fence point out that it would leave over 1000 miles of border without any fencing, and that it is not directly tied to needed comprehensive immigration reform. However, numerous sources maintain that such a fence could conceivably be added to with time, potentially completing a fence that spans the entire border, and that the border fence legislation is only a first step in a broader comprehensive immigration reform process.
pro_2_9	The difficulty of securing the border should not prevent the US from trying with a fence	 The difficulty of securing the border should not prevent the US from trying with a fence - Just because the 700-mile fence will be difficult to build, will encounter problems, and will not be 100% effective, does not mean that it should not be built. Of course problems will exist, but the important thing is that it will add some level of additional security to American borders. And, this is of essential importance to American sovereignty.
con_2_1	Illegal immigrants will simply go around a 700 mile fence	 Illegal immigrants will simply go around a 700 mile fence While the wall proposed is 700 miles long, the US-Mexico border is roughly 2,000 miles long. Illegal immigrants will simply cross over the two-thirds of the border that is not covered by the fence.[5]
con_2_2	Illegal immigrants will climb over a 700-mile fence	 Illegal immigrants will climb over a 700-mile fence After the construction of the San Diego fence, many illegal immigrants began crossing through the Arizona desert, which caused many of San Diego's border agents to move out there. According to T.J. Bonner, the president of the National Border Patrol Council, the main union for Border Patrol agents, "Tucson now has 2,600 agents. San Diego has lost 1,000 agents. Guess where the traffic is going? Back to San Diego. San Diego is the most heavily fortified border in the entire country, and yet it's not stopping people from coming across."[6]
con_2_3	Tunnels will be dug to bi-pass a 700-mile fence	 Tunnels will be dug to bi-pass a 700-mile fence: Global Security.org cited 40 tunnels being built between 2001 and 2006 under the US-Mexico border. Tunnels are a very effective means of bi-passing a border-fence, and are likely to contribute to the defeat of a 700-mile fence.
con_2_4	Boats and vehicles can be used to get around a border fence	 Boats and vehicles can be used to get around a border fence - Illegal immigrants are frequently being stuffed into cars and boats to make illegal crossing over legitimate road-crossings. The techniques for doing so are highly resourceful, including the hallowing out of dashboards to fit a person.
con_2_5	A wall doesn't prevent crossings by false papers or visa overstays	 A wall doesn't prevent crossings by false papers or visa overstays Illegal immigrants can cross the US-Mexico border with false papers and passports or by obtaining a visa to enter the United States but with the intention to overstay the visa's time period, which amounts to illegal immigration. These problems cannot be resolved through a border fence.
con_2_6	Increased border controls have not historically decreased illegal immigration	 Increased border controls have not historically decreased illegal immigration Council on Foreign Relations 2/21/06 - "A study done by Wayne Cornelius, a political science professor and director of the Center for Comparative Immigration Studies at the University of California, San Diego, showed that stronger border controls have either 'no statistically significant effect' on the propensity to migrate, or actually encourage migrants to stay in the United States longer. Cornelius found that, among the Mexicans surveyed in his study, 37 percent stayed in the United States longer than they had planned to because of the new regulations, and 79 percent knew someone who remained in the United States because of stronger border controls. Experts say that ultimately, stricter border controls and higher penalties will not stop illegal immigration because they don't address the root causes of the problem: a stagnant Mexican economy and strong demand for cheap labor in the U.S. market."
con_2_7	Coyotes will respond to a border fence with innovative new ways to cross	 Coyotes will respond to a border fence with innovative new ways to cross In general, coyotes will always respond to difficulties with effective counter measures that enable them to do business, and shuttle illegal immigrants across.
con_2_8	Virtual fences have had poor historical results	 "Virtual fences" have had poor historical results According to The Washington Post 09/20/06, the Homeland Security inspector general reported in December that since 1998, the Department of Homeland Security and the former Immigration and Naturalization Service spent $429 million on video and remote surveillance on the borders. Yet, nearly half of 489 cameras were never installed, 60 percent of sensor alerts are never investigated, 90 percent of the rest are false alarms, and only 1 percent overall resulted in arrests. In the same article, Doris Meissner, former INS commissioner was reported as saying, "There has been a huge amount of money poured into the border . . . but the track record of the performance of these technologies is disappointing."
con_2_9	The roads required for building a border fence may actually aid illegal immigration	 The roads required for building a border fence may actually aid illegal immigration - Roads need to be built to enable the construction of a border barrier. These roads, however, would actually better enable the rapid movement of illegal immigrants along the border in or outside of cars, thus actually aiding illegal immigration.
con_2_10	Failed fences in Spain demonstrate the futility of a border fence	 Failed fences in Spain demonstrate the futility of a border fence
con_2_11	Failed fences in China demonstrate the futility of a border fence	 Failed fences in China demonstrate the futility of a border fence
con_2_12	A border fence would create an incentive for illegal immigrants to remain inside a country	 A border fence would create an incentive for illegal immigrants to remain inside a country
con_2_13	Illegals will cross over rough terrain where the barrier can't be built	 Illegals will cross over rough terrain where the barrier can't be built
headline_3	National security: Will a fence strengthen national security?
pro_3_1	A 700 mile fence will help secure the southern US border against a number of threats	 A 700 mile fence will help secure the southern US border against a number of threats "Border threat: Leaders look the other way", Sara Carter, Daily Bulletin 12/29/06 - "The increased smuggling of drugs, humans and who-knows-what-else through a burgeoning international trade route through Nuevo Laredo, Mexico, and Laredo, Texas, is unsettling. So is the human carnage in the all-out battles among Mexican drug-smuggling cartels to control the Mexican trade route. Even more unsettling are the border crossings by 'special-interest aliens' - persons from countries that sponsor terrorism - and the 'culture of death' catching hold among drug smugglers, a culture that appears to share characteristics with terrorist fanaticism...The DEA warns in an intelligence report that Asian narcotics traffickers, in collusion with Mexican drug cartels and terrorist groups, could use the so-called Gateway to the Pacific - a plan to expand border trade through the two Laredos - to bring contraband into the United States. 'Contraband can be anything from narcotics, pirated videos, humans or weapons of mass destruction,' said a DEA spokesman...El Paso County Sheriff Leo Samaniego told a House committee in August that terrorist organizations are probing the border with the help of Mexican smugglers. Webb County, Texas, Sheriff Rick Flores testified before Congress about the growing violence in Laredo, which is spilling over from Nuevo Laredo."
con_3_1	Border fences do not decrease smuggling	 Border fences do not decrease smuggling Smuggling typically occurs in vehicles and often over legitimate passageways. A border barrier won't impact this.
con_3_2	Greater border efforts actually incentivizes more organized crime	 Greater border efforts actually incentivizes more organized crime: By increasing border controls, it becomes increasingly important for criminals to organize their efforts. Organized crime, therefore, increases along the border area.
con_3_3	The US-Mexico border has not been an entry point for terrorists	 The US-Mexico border has not been an entry point for terrorists Few if any high profile terrorists have entered the country through the US-Mexico border.
con_3_4	700 mile fence damages diplomacy and intelligence sharing	 700 mile fence damages diplomacy and intelligence sharing  Minnesota advocates for human rights - "If security measures offend public values, we may see a considerable decrease in public support, reduced participation by U.S. allies in sharing intelligence for counter-terrorism efforts."
con_3_5	9/11 Commission didn't recommend building a border barrier	 9/11 Commission didn't recommend building a border barrier Statement of Congressman Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, on the Floor of the House, in opposition to the Rule for H.R. 6061 - "Just ask the 9/11 Commissioners. Building of a fence to span our entire land border is not one of their recommendations."
headline_4	Economics: Will a fence benefit the US economy?
pro_4_1	The 700 mile fence is not relatively expensive	 The 700 mile fence is not relatively expensive. The roughly $2 billion price tag of the fence is not particularly high. Given that that much money is spent in Iraq in a single week[7], it seems like a very small price to pay to solve a major domestic crisis. Please note that the B2 Spirit costs $2.2 Billion dollars each[8]
pro_4_2	A 700-mile fence will reduce long-term border security costs	 A 700-mile fence will reduce long-term border security costs: A border fence will reduce the costs of paroling the border by billions of dollars over time.
pro_4_3	Planed breaks in the 700 mile fence are filled by mountainous terrain (sufficient barriers).	Planed breaks in the 700 mile fence are filled by mountainous terrain (sufficient barriers). While it is accurate that the fence will not be built in areas of treacherous terrain, the very nature of that terrain will provide a sufficient barrier to illegal crossings.
pro_4_4	US border towns should not be benefiting from shoppers that cross illegally.	US border towns should not be benefiting from shoppers that cross illegally. Some opponents of a fence contend that it might harm shopping from consumers that cross the border illegally. But, the very fact that these shoppers are crossing illegally makes it invalid to consider any economic gains associated with their crossing.
con_4_1	The 700 mile fence would be costly and run over budget	 The 700 mile fence would be costly and run over budget
con_4_2	The maintenance of the US border fence would be costly	 The maintenance of the US border fence would be costly According to some sources, maintenance is not being fully accounted for in the bill's cost projections. There are a number of maintenance issues that will add substantial costs to the fence. Damage from Arizona flash floods, for example, will damage the fence and add significantly to maintenance costs.
con_4_3	A border fence would not be as effective as other measures	 A border fence would not be as effective as other measures Boots on the ground and drones in the air are the most important thing. Resources should be spent on these factors, not on a building a border fence.
con_4_4	US education and health care are more important than building a border fence	 US education and health care are more important than building a border fence While a border fence may seem important, there are other more pressing matters in US domestic policy, including improving education and health care.
con_4_5	The 700-mile fence will cut off border towns from customers	 The 700-mile fence will cut off border towns from customers Many customers cross the border to shop. A border fence would cut-off this market.
headline_5	Environment: Would the environmental effects of a US-Mexico border wall be minimal?
pro_5_1	A border fence could help stem pollution from Illegal immigrants.	A border fence could help stem pollution from Illegal immigrants. WorldNetDaily.com 9/29/06 - "WND columnist and blogger Michelle Malkin points to an Arizona Daily Star report revealing the massive migration of illegal aliens across the wilderness has created its own environmental problem, with millions of pounds of trash left behind. Authorities estimate the 3.2 million-plus entrants caught by the Border Patrol from July 1999 through June 2005 dropped 25 million pounds of trash. That doesn't include the unknown amounts of garbage left by border-crossers who don't get caught."
con_5_1	A border fence would bisect natural habitats and migrations	 A border fence would bisect natural habitats and migrations Conservation Chairwoman with the Sierra Club's Lower Rio Grande Valley Group, Mary Lou Campbell to the Associated Press 10/2/06 - "[Endangered species] move back and forth across the water.  When you isolate a species, you also [alter] their gene pool...We're concerned about the overall animal population. I'm sure they would be cutting down trees and brush and underbrush to make way for this wall, and all of it will be destructive to wildlife."
headline_6	Foreign relations: Would a fence benefit foreign relations?
pro_6_1	Good fences make good neighbors	 "Good fences make good neighbors" This is a quote from Robert Frost's, "Mending Wall".[9] and has been used to argue that a fence would be good for US-Mexico relations.[10]
pro_6_2	Building a fence is a sovereign right that should be accepted by other countries.	Building a fence is a sovereign right that should be accepted by other countries.
con_6_1	A border fence would be harmful to US-Latin American Diplomacy	 A border fence would be harmful to US-Latin American Diplomacy
con_6_2	Remittances are an interest underlying Latin American governments opposition to the border wall.	Remittances are an interest underlying Latin American governments opposition to the border wall. In 2005, legal and illegal immigrants from Latin America and the Caribbean sent home $45 billion in remittances."[13]
headline_7	Where do the other key players and organizations stand?
pro_7_1	Interest and Activist Groups Supporting a Wall:	Interest and Activist Groups Supporting a Wall:
pro_7_2	Federation for American Immigration Reform FAIR	Federation for American Immigration Reform FAIR There basic position on the H.R. 6061 and the 700-mile fence is presented in the following statement by FAIR President Dan Stein: "An additional 700 miles of border fencing and other security measures constitute an important first toward comprehensive immigration enforcement, but much more remains to be done if we are going to effectively stem the tide of illegal immigration and protect the nation’s security. Enhanced border enforcement must be followed with a comprehensive strategy for eliminating the magnet of jobs and benefits that draw illegals to this country."[14]
pro_7_4	The Minuteman Project	The Minuteman Project - "a citizens' Vigilance Operation monitoring immigration".
pro_7_5	You Don't Speak for Me	You Don't Speak for Me, a Latino American group that favors border security and the enforcement of immigration laws. Its name is a protest against the many anti-fence and pro-illegal immigrant Latino-American activist groups that claim to speak for the Latino-American population.
con_7_3	Migration Policy Institute (nonpartisan)	Migration Policy Institute (nonpartisan) - Its Mexican Immigration Expert Deborah Meyers opposes a fence.[15]
con_7_4	Interest and Activist Groups:	Interest and Activist Groups:
