title	Creationism vs evolution in schools
question	Should public schools teach creationism alongside evolution in science classes?
headline_1	Creationism as science: Does creationism qualify as science?
pro_1_1	Teaching evolution exclusively is dangerous to science and reason.	Teaching evolution exclusively is dangerous to science and reason. To exclude a set of ideas a priori is to potentially exclude the truth. Thus, as a matter of principle, science should not be constrained to a single set of ideas.  Creationists argue that both sides should be taught.  Evolutionists, on the other hand, limit the scope of science to a narrow acceptance of just one theory.  Thus, to teach evolution exclusively is to promote limitations on the power of scientific inquiry.  To teach creationism along side evolutionism is to promote open scientific inquiry and critical thought.
pro_1_2	Creationism is scientifically testable	 Creationism is scientifically testable. Some creationists have argued that 'creationism' is a theory consistent with the scientific method. The hypothesis it adopts is that God created 'the heaven and earth ...' some thousands of years ago, and that man did not "evolve" into his current state. Supporters of Creationism then cite supporting evidence for this theory.
pro_1_3	Evolution is unobserved; it is an unproven theory	 Evolution is unobserved; it is an unproven theory - The term evolution can describe a number of things, some of which are directly observable while others are not.  Evolutionists extrapolate evidence for observed evolution to be evidence for unobserved evolution. We have directly observed that random mutations invoke change and that nature sometimes selects for these mutations. Such mutations, however, are the result of the degregation of already existing information, not the development of new information.  The development of new information via random mutation has not been observed. What has been observed is a very low ceiling for the number of mutations that the economy of life will allow before fitness costs become fatal. This is why bacteria have yet to grow arms, despite our direct observation of billions of generations.
pro_1_4	The theory of evolution is not falsifiable	 The theory of evolution is not falsifiable The fact that evolution is present is true, and that isn't what many creationists who are well informed argue. Yes, evolution happens, but Darwin's theory was simply that; a theory. Even he said that he wasn't sure it was true. To the extent to which evolution occurs, no scientist can prove. If evolution was present, why is it no longer? Where are all of the half ape-human creatures? Why are humans now borne from other humans, and monkeys from monkeys. They may be the most similar mammal to humans, but that in no way proves that humans "evolved" from them. Yes, a plant or an environment may evolve over time. New species are formed, but that cannot in any way prove that for millions...no, billions of years evolution has created humans, and all other life forms. It's just as "out there" as creationism is, but that is automatically pushed aside as not possible to many because it involves religious views. If a theory is going to be taught in schools, all other theories should be given equal credit in the classroom. It IS NOT a proven theory what they are teaching in schools, but it is taught as if it is the only option. That isn't how it should  be.
con_1_1	Teaching creationism is dangerous to science and reason	 Teaching creationism is dangerous to science and reason - If a theory that does not follow the scientific method is taught in schools as "science", science and reasoning will be undermined.
con_1_2	Creationism is not scientifically testable	 Creationism is not scientifically testable. - The creationist account is an explanation that is not based on empirical evidence. It is not, nor claimed to be by those that uphold it, dependent on evidence or consequences that are observable by the senses. The creationist account requires a belief founded on faith and is not a 'working hypothesis' testable using observation or experiment. 'Explanations that cannot be based on empirical evidence are not a part of science' – National Academy of Sciences, Science and Creationism [1] Furthermore, all scientific theories are necessarily unproven - that’s what ‘theory’ means. A hypothesis is an assumption that is not taken as "truth", but as speculation. Evidence is used to test a hypothesis with the goal of demonstrating that it is likely true or unlikely true. If the evidence demonstrates that a hypothesis is likely false, then it is scrapped, and a new hypothesis is formed. This is the strict process of the scientific method. Critics of creation argue that creationism takes the Genesis account (actually there are two Genesis accounts, in Gen 1.1-2.3 and Gen 2.4-3.24) as necessarily true in every particular, and then bends the historical evidence to fit that so-called ‘hypothesis’. Because creationism attempts to advance an unalterable hypothesis or doctrine, it does not follow the basic principles of science, which stem from doubt, hypothesizing, and re-hypothesizing on to accepted theory. Because creationism fails to follow this basic scientific, theoretical approach, logically it is argued that it should not be called a "science".
con_1_3	Evolution is an observable fact	 Evolution is an observable fact - While creationists often attempt to describe evolution as merely a theory, this is not exactly the case. Observations that evolution does occur in nature makes the process of evolution fact. The only part of evolution that is "theory" is the explanation as to "why" it occurs. But the "why" has nothing to do with the simple fact that it does occur, a fact that leaves no room for creationism.
headline_2	Upholding Christianity: Is creationism important to Christianity?
pro_2_1	Teaching creationism's truth is necessary in upholding the truth of the Bible.	Teaching creationism's truth is necessary in upholding the truth of the Bible. There is a great deal at stake in the claim that God did not create the world in seven days: the Bible says that he did; if he did not, then the Bible is wrong. If the Bible is wrong on this, we cannot trust it on anything else and the entire Christian faith can be viewed as a lie. Atheists claim it is not appropriate to teach creationism as a 'truth' and evolution should be taught as a theory. However, those churches that fail to uphold the faith in creationism and even accept the theory of evolution are compromising their faith.
pro_2_2	If we are descended from animals then the unique relationship between man and god is undermined.	If we are descended from animals then the unique relationship between man and god is undermined. There is nothing to separate us from the beasts, and no moral basis for feeling ‘special’ and acting differently from them.
con_2_1	It is not 'appropriate' to teach creationism as a means for upholding the bible.	It is not 'appropriate' to teach creationism as a means for upholding the bible. This pre-supposes that the bible should be upheld in a literal sense. Many Christians object to this. More importantly, governments should not be in the business of upholding the Bible.
con_2_2	Allowing creationism in schools would violate the separation of church and state	 Allowing creationism in schools would violate the separation of church and state A separation of Church and state necessitates that public schools not be a forum for upholding the validity or truth of certain faiths. This does not necessarily mean that Christian faith and "creationism" should not be taught as subjects of interest in public schools.
con_2_3	Evolution has no implications for morality: it describes what has happened, making no judgement about whether what has happened is good:	Evolution has no implications for morality: it describes what has happened, making no judgement about whether what has happened is good: Non-religious ethicists are perfectly capable of making moral judgements, and they regularly do so.
con_2_4	Creationism makes a false historical/scientific claim that is detached from the broader precepts of belief in God.	Creationism makes a false historical/scientific claim that is detached from the broader precepts of belief in God. The belief that God creates and sustains the world is not the same as the belief that God created the world in seven days a few thousand years ago. The former is a theological position which implies the goodness and sovereignty of God, and his continuing involvement with his creation, not a scientific claim. The latter is an empirically testable claim which has been empirically tested and found to be false. We should not allow schools to teach our children things that are just plain wrong, and known to be wrong. This is distinct from allowing the teaching of religion, which is culturally and historically significant and which involves beliefs which are in principle distinct from science.
con_2_5	Evolution makes no judgment about the existence of God or Jesus.	Evolution makes no judgment about the existence of God or Jesus.  It only tries to explain the process by which species develop from other species. This is insufficient, and gives cause to teaching the potential for something greater (God) in schools.
con_2_6	The Bible is simply wrong if a literal interpretation is taken	The Bible is simply wrong if a literal interpretation is taken: On this question, the Bible just is wrong, and if you insist on holding a literalistic approach to Scripture then the implications you claim do indeed follow. However, there is no theological need to do this. The Roman Catholic and the Anglican churches, for example, have accepted the truth of evolution and they still hold what is a recognisably and distinctively Christian faith. If the authors of the Bible meant their creation stories to be taken literally then their claims are open to scientific test. It is widely held that they wrote stories designed to account for the world as they knew it, and by todays standards these could not be held up as scientific accounts.
headline_3	Teaching the controversy: Should the controversy be taught in schools?
pro_3_1	The idea that creationists reject mutation or natural selection is ridiculous.	The idea that creationists reject mutation or natural selection is ridiculous. These are observable facts. What creationists defend is the idea that these changes cannot create new species, and as a result, a design, a designer, and a creator is necessary. Furthermore, if schools do not teach competing theories, it is comparable to teaching there is no alien life. This cannot be proven or demonstrated, however, it would seem that if that fit in with their theory for the rest of biology, the evolutionists would teach it without question.
pro_3_2	Open-mindedness toward creationism is important.	Open-mindedness toward creationism is important. People should not reject discussion of Creationist theory simply because their belief in science and evolution contradict evolution. That would be closed-minded toward the subject. One must be open to the concept or idea (not just debunk it because the theory states a power called GOD and that's not yet proven by science). Many have had a meta-physical experience in their lives that cannot be explained by the existing science. People take to deep faith in these experiences, and would not accept someone else telling them that their experience was false or an illusion. The same can be considered in the notion of creationism, and that off-hand rejection of it is overly closed-minded to the possibility of valid metaphysical realities unexplained by science and evolution.
pro_3_3	Attempts to conceal the creationism-evolution controversy from students are dogmatic promotions of evolution.	Attempts to conceal the creationism-evolution controversy from students are dogmatic promotions of evolution. Not since blasphemy laws has competitive expression of thought been illegalized, and this is what evolutionists want to accomplish. This is evidenced by none other than the title of an evolutionist argument on this very page: "Schools should not teach theories that are completely at odds with each other"
pro_3_4	Teaching darwinism is comparable to teaching	Teaching darwinism is comparable to teaching flying spaghetti monsterism.We've observed the ability of rapidly moving water to carve out canyons resembling the Grand Canyon (see: Little Grand Canyon, Mt. st Helens);  we haven't observed gradualistic processes accomplish the same feat.  Intelligent scientists have manipulated genetic information to create novel new functions (see: glow-in-the-dark pigs, cats); we haven't observed the ability of nature to generate the same sort of novelty via the natural selection of random mutations, the alleged engine of evolution.
pro_3_5	Teaching the creationism-evolution controversy is important to student learning.	Teaching the creationism-evolution controversy is important to student learning. - One of the greatest lessons that a school can teach its students is the ability to use their own logic and reasoning to develop an objective opinion of the world around them. By teaching creationism in the classroom, schools are broadening students' knowledge. It is possible to teach both creationism and evolution in the same school. The goal is to expose students to all widely held 'beliefs'. The path to understanding requires the teaching of both Creationism and Evolution.
pro_3_6	Preventing the teaching of creationism violates freedom of religion.	Preventing the teaching of creationism violates freedom of religion. Many groups contend that evolution directly instructs that Genesis is wrong. If this is true, than allowing only the teaching of evolutionary theory directly undermines a religious doctrine. Young, impressionable students are more likely to believe such teachings. This should not be the case. Public schools should allow for the teaching of all salient doctrines and theories. No favor should be given one way or another. This principle is known as "Freedom of Religion" and is protected in the United States by the Establishment Clause. This clause ensures that no favor or dis-favor be given to any religious doctrine, yet this is precisely what is happening if creationism is prevented by the state from being taught in schools.
pro_3_7	Biology can be studied in a creationist context.	Biology can be studied in a creationist context. Some argue that looking at the way in which different organisms work shows us the beauty and perfection of God’s design.
pro_3_8	The history of God's creation should be taught irrespective of it being considered science.	The history of God's creation should be taught irrespective of it being considered "science". Why does creationism have to be considered "scientific" to be taught? Spirituality and God's role in creating the world (or even just the possibility of this) are all highly important to understand by students, and should therefore be taught.
pro_3_9	Schools should teach competing theories	Schools should teach competing theories The idea that creationists reject mutation or natural selection is ridiculous. These are observable facts. What creationists defend is the idea that these changes cannot create new species, and as a result, a design, a designer, and a creator is necessary. Furthermore, if schools do not teach competing theories, it is comparable to teaching there is no alien life. This cannot be proven or demonstrated, however, it would seem that if that fit in with their theory for the rest of biology, the evolutionists would teach it without question.
pro_3_10	Teaching Creationism is in no way akin to child abuse.	Teaching Creationism is in no way akin to child abuse. Does Richard Dawkins give any support for his claim? Any reason he believes this to be so? It is hard to refute an argument that states ungrounded opinion as fact, but even harder to take it seriously.
pro_3_11	Modern Evolution Theory is philosophy by Darwin's own definition	Modern Evolution Theory is "philosophy" by Darwin's own definition
con_3_1	Teaching Creationism would be against the law.	Teaching Creationism would be against the law. Bibles and other holy doctrines are not allowed to be used by a teacher for any purpose, so regardless of anything else, it is against the law.
con_3_2	Attempts to teach the creationism-evolution controversy to students are disingenuous promotions of activist Christians.	Attempts to teach the creationism-evolution controversy to students are disingenuous promotions of activist Christians. Certainly, it sounds reasonable that creationism should taught in public schools in the context of it being a cultural/religious perspective? Who could argue with this? Many non believers would argue that creationism and Bible are wonderful literary works of fiction, and so, yes, they should be taught. Unfortunately those that uphold creationism as true cannot be satisfied with this because their doctrine drives them to require it to be taught as the truth. This is what many creationists are calling for in school systems. They frequently call for individuals classes to be created that teach "creationism science" as truth.
con_3_3	Teaching creationism is comparable to teaching	Teaching creationism is comparable to teaching flat earthism. The scientific consensus against creationism is as strong as against "flat earthism". "Flat earthism" would never be taught today as a legitimate theory. Therefore, neither should creationism be taught as a theory explaining the origin of the earth. This view is put forward by Richard Dawkins, a prominent opponent of teaching creationism in schools.
con_3_4	Schools should not teach theories that are completely at odds with each other.	Schools should not teach theories that are completely at odds with each other. Evolution should be a central part of the science curriculum, because the rest of biology is dependent on it. Understanding how and why different organisms work as they do requires a knowledge of mutation, natural selection and adaptation, which are rejected by creationism. For creationism, the classification of living things based on lines of descent and chronological speciation makes no sense. Furthermore, understanding how evolution works as a theory helps teach students about the nature of scientific method - a matter on which creationists are notoriously shaky.
con_3_5	Because students are impressionable, if you teach them the literal truth of Genesis as science, they may well believe you.	Because students are impressionable, if you teach them the literal truth of Genesis as science, they may well believe you. Since you are wrong, this is not to be welcomed, particularly since what your teaching involves is a wilful misunderstanding of the nature of scientific method, with implications for their understanding of science in general for the rest of their lives. The fact that more than half of all Americans believe that the world was created by God in seven days is a testament to political pressure from Christians to water down the science curriculum, and it is harmful - because it is wrong. We may allow children to be sent to faith schools, but we do not allow those schools to teach them whatever they like.
con_3_6	If creationism should be taught, it should not be taught in science classes.	If creationism should be taught, it should not be taught in science classes. Opponents point out that there is no scientific controversy, but only a political and religious one, therefore "teaching the controversy" would only be appropriate in a social studies, religion, or philosophy class.
con_3_7	Teaching creationism is akin to child-abuse.	Teaching creationism is akin to child-abuse. This view is put forward by Richard Dawkins, a prominent opponent of teaching creationism in schools.
headline_4	Public opinion: Where do the various publics stand?
con_4_1	Public opinion is unimportant to whether creationism belongs in science classes	 Public opinion is unimportant to whether creationism belongs in science classes - Public opinion does not determine whether creationism qualifies as science. This is the primary question surrounding whether it belongs in the classroom, so public opinion should not have any place in this debate.
headline_5	Activists/scholars pro and con in this debate
